

Dear Human, 

There are no “correct” answers to spiritual questions.

What is God? Is there an afterlife? Which religion is correct? You can embrace solutions to these questions all you want, but your brain’s ability to process spiritual truth is about like a bear’s ability to sit down at a computer and engineer artificial intelligence. 

You ought to focus on making the most of the opportunities before you: Loving the life you live and loving the people in your life are the ultimate acts of gratitude for the gift of consciousness. Building tools, sharing art, and especially cooking nutritious delicious things for those people is an expression of that love. Consider living in the types of small spiritual communities like humans have for most of the time, even if only some of the time. You may be happier that way.

You’re not the founder of a religion, and humans are better off without gurus in your lives, yourselves included. But you can show people how you might start a religion—talk about it. That might do some good. Don’t half-ass it. Say it like you mean it. 

You can call me God, or The Universe, the Source, the One…or whatever you like. No human concept contains me. You can address me, but you don’t know what, where, why, how—or possibly who—I am.

— The Addressable Unknown 


----
It’s not that I just randomly discern that message when I look at the stars. It’s that, when I stare at the stars and ponder, my mind goes to that message. It seems like it’s a very old message. Not based on some intuition, but based on observation.

I’m confident in saying that, hundreds of thousands of years before anybody thought of today’s mainstream religions, an early member of our species thought, “I have no idea what’s going on or how we all got here.” And probably not long after, another thought, “I’m grateful for the sun thing, as it warms my naked body.” Later, but long before recorded history it seems, someone thought “Seems like everything is interconnected.” And they were right! 

The very short version of this book is this: we still don’t know where we are or how we got here, and we would be wise to be ever-more grateful for the sun—for existence itself. We can worship what is. That’s why I’ve written this book. 

I believe it’s time “spiritual but not religious” people define ourselves by what we are, not what we’re not. We are among the largest, wealthiest, and most influential self-identifying groups to ever walk the Earth. When spiritual but not religious people evolve into a focused demographic, it may be the most valuable advertising demographic in the history of the world. 

Recognizing the mysteries of the universe while worshiping the Earth and the Sun and the Moon and the Stars—that’s the oldest spiritual practice by a long shot. Today, the practice isn’t a “religion” by the definition of the government, and the practitioners of the most ancient form of spiritual practice get no rights and privileges as such. Build a Methodist Church, and you’re tax-exempt; build a Solar Temple, and you have to pay taxes, or hire a great attorney to slowly work your way through the legal system and maybe—maybe not—get approval for a niche religion. The strain on people who want to use the legal system to build a community center that is labeled Christian is very low and the state helps them out. The strain on people who want to have a Temple for the Stars is very high because most people haven’t been doing this, and the law doesn’t cater to it. While some folks outright don’t want it to happen, many others believe first and foremost in religious freedom and will support our cause if we earnestly and compassionately express our believes and live our values. 

