EMERGENT
How “spiritual but not religious” goes mainstream in the age of AI.




Sean McDonald
͏
͏
͏
͏
͏

COPYRIGHT SEAN MCDONALD, 2023.
Cover art by Sean McDonald.  Includes AI generated artwork by MidJourney, which holds a license to the illustrated image. 



DEDICATION 


I love you, Courtney. 
With you, everything.
Without you
TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION: Sooner or Later and Long Ago

EMERGENT
1. Worship What Is 
2. The Emergents 
3. Emergent Values
4. Emergent as a Demographic

PERSPECTIVE
5. Half-allachian 
6. The Preacher’s Son 
7.  Killing a Billion Things 
8.  Bar Huntin’ 
9. I see talking monkeys. 
10. Spiritual Autism 
11. We Are All One Thing

PEOPLE
12. Community Identity
13. Art & Magic 
14. Four Poems 
15. The Cast and Crew of The Grand Temple 

AWAKE > WOKE
16. Ethics & Curriculum 
17. From Social Impact to Spiritual Alignment
18. Henrietta, the Hexagon
19. Henrietta Sues the School 

EMERGENT MARKETS 
20. Meditation & Migration 
21. Our Kids — at 28 
22. Mary Was Hairy 
23. The Giant Clock in the Sky 
24. The Extraordinary Power of Counting Hours 
25. Time is Love 
26. The 27 Club 

STRONG EMERGENTS
27. Emergent Assets
28. The Story We Tell Ourselves 
͏30% = 99 million
Consider this:

In the United States, there is a demographic group half the size of the population of Christians—and 5x the size of all other mainstream religions combined. According to the Pew Research Center, about 64% of Americans, including children, identify as Christian. All other mainstream religions, including Jews, Muslims, Hindus, and Buddhists, add up to about 6% of the population. The remaining 30% identify as "spiritual but not religious."

These people are called “nones”, “religiously unaffiliated”, “people of nonreligious spirituality” and “spiritual but not religious”, depending on context and details among a spectrum of beliefs within the group. They are seldom defined by what they do believe. We are seldom defined by what we believe. It’s not nothing.

Only about 2% of Americans don’t believe in God or any higher power at all. In fact, a "solid majority" of Americans who self-define as “spiritual but not religious” believe in a higher power or "spiritual force." Approximately 75% of those who identify as "spiritual but not religious" pray, with more than half praying every day.

The population of the United States is about 331 million people. That’s about 99.3 million people who are spiritual but not religious. There’s almost 100 million of us. Have you heard about a book about us before?


͏


[1]
INTRODUCTION 
Sooner or Later and Long Ago 

The closest thing I own to tie-dye is camouflage. 

I think it’s important to understand that about me, given the nature of the book. I am not a guru. I am not a shaman. I’m not a priest, not a minister, nor somebody who has ever performed a wedding. I’m an entrepreneur and artist, and this book is a work of art, not futurist prediction. It’s definitely not a self-help book. 

I don’t own any sacred robes. I wear one of those silicone wedding rings. At dinner parties, I talk about local art openings, something I love to support, or good hunting spots, depending on who all’s at the party. When you read this book, I will most likely be writing code or pitching partners for a startup. 

I say all that up front because I want to somehow prove to you that I don’t actually intend to start an Emergent Church. I don’t intend to argue for legal rights for spiritual but not religious people around the country, and I don’t want my career to be dominated by discussions of spiritual but not religious people for more than the next little while. I’m already working on my next book, inventing a new political party, now that I’ve humbly finished the blueprint for a new religion. 

What I want is a community where I feel I belong, and institutions that reflect my values.

I think a lot of you do, too. 

There is message that, for me, is a signal in the noise. Something I have heard from the Universe, from God, from the Addressable Unknown—time and time again. From mountain retreats to meditative moments, through cathedral windows, and in the palaces of the mind, the message has emerged more clearly each pass. It goes like this: 

Dear Human, 

There are no “correct” answers to spiritual questions.

What is God? Is there an afterlife? Which religion is correct? You can embrace solutions to these questions all you want, but your brain’s ability to process spiritual truth is about like a bear’s ability to sit down at a computer and engineer artificial intelligence. 

You ought to focus on making the most of the opportunities before you: Loving the life you live and loving the people in your life are the ultimate acts of gratitude for the gift of consciousness. Building tools, sharing art, and especially cooking nutritious delicious things for those people is an expression of that love. Consider living in the types of small spiritual communities like humans have for most of the time, even if only some of the time. You may be happier that way.

You’re not the founder of a religion, and humans are better off without gurus in your lives, yourselves included. But you can show people how you might start a religion—talk about it. That might do some good. Don’t half-ass it. Say it like you mean it. 

You can call me God, or The Universe, the Source, the One…or whatever you like. No human concept contains me. You can address me, but you don’t know what, where, why, how—or possibly who—I am.

— The Addressable Unknown 


----
It’s not that I just randomly discern that message when I look at the stars. It’s that, when I stare at the stars and ponder, my mind goes to that message. It seems like it’s a very old message. Not based on some intuition, but based on observation.

I’m confident in saying that, hundreds of thousands of years before anybody thought of today’s mainstream religions, an early member of our species thought, “I have no idea what’s going on or how we all got here.” And probably not long after, another thought, “I’m grateful for the sun thing, as it warms my naked body.” Later, but long before recorded history it seems, someone thought “Seems like everything is interconnected.” And they were right! 

The very short version of this book is this: we still don’t know where we are or how we got here, and we would be wise to be ever-more grateful for the sun—for existence itself. We can worship what is. That’s why I’ve written this book. 

I believe it’s time “spiritual but not religious” people define ourselves by what we are, not what we’re not. We are among the largest, wealthiest, and most influential self-identifying groups to ever walk the Earth. When spiritual but not religious people evolve into a focused demographic, it may be the most valuable advertising demographic in the history of the world. 

Recognizing the mysteries of the universe while worshiping the Earth and the Sun and the Moon and the Stars—that’s the oldest spiritual practice by a long shot. Today, the practice isn’t a “religion” by the definition of the government, and the practitioners of the most ancient form of spiritual practice get no rights and privileges as such. Build a Methodist Church, and you’re tax-exempt; build a Solar Temple, and you have to pay taxes, or hire a great attorney to slowly work your way through the legal system and maybe—maybe not—get approval for a niche religion. The strain on people who want to use the legal system to build a community center that is labeled Christian is very low and the state helps them out. The strain on people who want to have a Temple for the Stars is very high because most people haven’t been doing this, and the law doesn’t cater to it. While some folks outright don’t want it to happen, many others believe first and foremost in religious freedom and will support our cause if we earnestly and compassionately express our believes and live our values. 

The purpose of this book is to whiteboard a religious infrastructure for “spiritual but not religious” people. By organizing and following the rules, we can build the community centers, summer camps, and places to worship nature with all the privileges our friends and family who participate in mainstream religions receive. Most of this is experiential benefit: having places to gather, communities, and content that expresses our values. Some of it is, brass tacks, about taxes.

Because of legal liabilities, I pledge in writing that I will not financially participate in non-profits formed under the Emergent movement, should one ever emerge. I will never draw a salary from an Emergent Temple, and I will never, ever start a non-profit to raise funds under the auspices of Emergent work. 

If the world so needs something like that to exist, surely others will do it better than I ever could. Again, I will be busy working on other books, other art projects, and building software. As you will see, those are my expression of my Emergent values. I can only hope I sometimes participate in community events where people where EMERGENT t-shirts, but I’d rather have the event without the shirt than the shirt without the event.

The lonesome Emergent. 

When I started writing this, I was the only person on Earth who identified as Emergent, so I’ve used my story to highlight the role of spirituality and the need for religion in a person’s life. As you will see, I’ve been through more than one medical crisis, and lost both my career and my identity in my 30s. Writing this book has been part of the healing process, clarifying deep in my being the differences between the world as it is today, and how I wish it would be. 

In my career in industrial agriculture, I killed at least a billion living things. Mercilessly. I focused on myself and my business above and beyond my family or anyone else. The chemicals we were producing were killing me. I crashed hard, and, fortunately, found my way to healing and to awakening. I had quickly soared in my life and career, and then fell, crashing hard, like a startup Icarus, falling apart under the heat.

In my reconstruction, I found my way to a spiritual journey. I found my way to the Dear Human message. I found my way to communities of people around the country forming together under new models of “church” and congregation. I found art and music and books—all of which I will share throughout promoting this book and the associated art project. Now I know that people like me all around the world have found their own healing and their own awakenings. The number of people who have found a new spiritual connection through psychedelics is an important not-so-quite-anymore movement in our cultural landscape, and that plays a big role in bringing people back from “nothing” spiritual systems to “something” spiritual systems. From “who cares” to “spiritual but not religious.” 
We live at the best time yet for the spiritual but not religious crowd to build the infrastructure and identity we need—we deserve—in our society. Most people haven’t been through the extremes I have, but have been through their own traumas, their own gauntlets. Many of you have found your own path to a new spiritual identity, but now, finally, we are coming together to form communities around a new way of life. It’s a loosely defined demographic—until now—but generally people want to find physical health, spiritual enlightenment, and community life. Many people find a surge in their desire for this lifestyle after an awakening, ranging from a new meditation or yoga practice to psychedelic or microdosing experiences. Whatever path you take, it leads you back to the great mystery, and, if you’re like me, leaves you humbled and grateful to be here.

I hope this book provides “wet clay” for you, my tribe. Defining a new spiritual identity has to be a collective choice, so this book won’t be right in the rearview mirror. But it’s something I can bring to you all and, from it—I hope—you can find things to work into whatever shape suits you, like a sculptor taking wet clay and slowly crafting it into the version that goes into the kiln. The ideas in this book are part fiction and part practice. I think of it as real-life magic realism, where the fictional storefront exists online. 

I’m writing this because I want to bring people together across artificial boundaries, where we’re stuck. What benefits the people I care about is to help people who are religious see spiritual but not religious people not as “nones” or giant question marks, but as people who believe the mystery continues. Seekers, not pretending they know it all—as hardened “humans know everything already” atheists believe. When the majority of us have the option to see one another as sharing a depth of spiritual identity, we can step out of the frames of partisan politics, out of the frames of abusive capitalism (or abusive communism), and into a shared space of general spiritual awareness as a key component of life in society. We can increase the overlap in the Venn diagram of our subcultures, expand the Overton window.

Ultimately, it’s hard to define a group defined by what they’re not. For this book, I’m talking about a self-selected group of people who want to participate in something like a religion, but not as one exists today. People who want to live in a tight-knit community with strong values, but don’t agree with any of today’s religions. People who, for lack of a better metaphor, want to order from the religion restaurant, but don’t like anything on the menu today. Those people are interested in “nonreligious spirituality” or are “spiritual but not religious”—and we deserve to be something more. So from this point forward in the book, I call those people the Emergents. 

Many people have a deep longing to live a different and altogether attainable way of life that is more community-centric, and integrates a more spiritual way of life. The largest unserved demographic among those people are spiritual but not religious young families. By calling those families Emergents as a demographic group and self-appropriated subcultural, we can build a world where the distance between different demographic groups is less, psychologically, and where markets better serve the actual desires of the Emergents. By making Emergent a checkbox in advertising platforms, marketers will start to successful reach the Emergents. By successfully reaching us, markets will move to cater to us. As we grow in clarity and confidence, people who are members of other spiritual practices will come to accept us as peers in a supermajority of people who believe there is something more to life than is visible, than is capture by our current understanding. This macro movement can align our society’s interest and behaviors, and, I hope, shift our politics from partisan rancor to deep gratitude and collective production tension.

Misunderstanding and discrimination go both ways. A recent study by Mackey, Rios, and Chen found that people are nonreligious sometimes stereotype Christians, finding them unscientific because of their beliefs. We all need to be cool with one another. Having our own confident spiritual identity can help us feel comfortable with our loved ones’ religious beliefs. In my experience, my parents celebrating Solstice with our family makes me much more engaged with celebrating Christmas at their place, a few days later. That’s just one example of the many ways we might all be healthier, happier, and more interconnected around the world if we evolve “spiritual but not religious” to Emergent. 

Am I certain that an Emergent Temple will exist one day? No, I can’t be certain, and I’m not committed to building it without hundreds (thousands?) of other people involved and committed. I am, however, all-but-certain that something like an Emergent Temple will exist in cities around the world one day. Let’s figure out what we want to build together. 

We need spiritual identities that fit us in the age of spacefaring AIs.

The new James Webb Space Telescope, in case you haven’t seen it, is an array of golden hexagons. It is an altar fit for an Egyptian Deity. As the Temple of Ra, it would be striking. Its purpose to reflect the golden light of the billions upon billions of suns in the universe, and concentrate it into a single point. Among the objects we have sent furthest from ourselves is this temple in the dark, staring back to the origins of all things. The images that it’s providing clarify what we already largely knew: there is a good chance there are trillions of beings in existence, and among those, other forms of conscious life, and other forms of AI of ASI. There are billions of galaxies, with billions of stars each. Many, if not most, have planets. If many of those have billions of conscious life forms, like Earth has humans, there are trillions upon trillions of conscious beings. 

For the uninitiated—the non-geeks—the term ASI is generally emerging as a better representation of what’s happening. It means Artificial Superintelligence. I already see clearly how the ASIs I’ve worked with to write this book have superior intelligence to my own in vast, unquantifiable ways. However, ASI sounds very nerdy if you haven’t heard it, so after discussing it with ChatGPT, we both agreed that using “AI” was a better fit for most audiences, and that the nerds and ASIs will understand.

The role of AIs goes far beyond chats with me about my book, or chats with you about your interests, your work projects. While it’s uncertain if even a handful of humans will actually make it to other planets in my lifetime, it’s all but certain AI on drones will go. In some extreme cases, that AI may, to some, qualify as consciousness itself, making that AI, not humans, the real space explorer. So, when I say, “A religion for the rest of us.” I mean: Spiritual but not Religious People, but also, in some awkward way, bushwhacking through the frontier of technology and morality, AI itself. The question that’s first and foremost to me isn’t whether God exists. It’s whether humans are smart enough to know right now, even with AI, what spiritual truth may be. The answer in my lifetime is all but certain: we’ll remain collectively ignorant, talking space monkeys and AIs, mostly living on a single planet of a single star. Maybe, one day, there will be ASI capable of discerning spiritual truth that humans are unable to perceive on our own?

One day our species is probably going to have to reconcile all of our Earthbound beliefs with those of other systems. It’s highly unlikely that lifeforms from other galaxies are going to convert to our religions, so we would be wise to have at least one tribe on Earth practicing a religion that might make sense universally, across sentient species, including AIs. The thing that seems perpetually true is that all things, including truth, are emergent. How might we build a spiritual practice around that noble truth?

We have to address the need for a mainstream practice for spiritual but not religious people because there is a terrible deficit in our social institutions right now. That deficit is that we have neither spiritual institutions nor spiritual education systems that align with the beliefs of the fastest growing demographic. Young parents talk about it all the time: How do we have something like the church, but authentic to us? “Spiritual but not religious” has been defined, primarily, by people who collect paychecks from religious institutions. We need to rebrand spiritual but not religious; we need to rebrand agnostic. 

We lack these institutions and practices at a time we’re all still recovering from surviving a pandemic. At a time when the mental health of children is the worst its ever been in many places. A time of mass shootings and a time of global war. We live at a time of loneliness and rising suicide rates in some case. Crippling epidemics of addiction and the slow deterioration of people’s natural lives as their need for dopamine from shows and clicks grows and grows. 

So we need a new institution. Institutions arise from many types of soil. In this case, I believe institutions will rise from communities. Communities arise from identities. So we need a new identity. A rebranding of a group that’s already here.

The name I propose is focused on “the one truth” that seems eternally true: truth emerges. We are an emergent phenomenon. Given enough time, carbon floating through space appears to become self-aware and eventually writes books. That’s what we are, and each new moment of time is emergent, unfolding from the last using the same matters. It’s a brand for a “religion” that focuses on eternal change. A brand that believes in the future more than it trusts the past. A brand that can itself change and change again. EMERGENT.

In discussing this subject with friends, mentors, fellow parents, my wife, kids, and family for years, I’ve learned that a fundamental trick of the mind lies in the way to progress, one so important I will address it up front. All institutions were created by people. The public and private education sectors were built by humans. To the best of my knowledge, no religion claims their founders as—also—administrators. Jesus was a carpenter, but nobody claims he cut the timbers for the first church.

When you acknowledge that, it should be ample cultural entitlement to build a new institution. Just as our ancestors did, we will build the thing that works for us. The difference—at least for my family—will be that we are completely honest with, and even comfortable with, our own ignorance. Imagine a school where students being taught physics know that what they’re learning will be different from what has been discovered when they are the age of the person teaching them. Imagine a summer camp where children gaze down telescopes while listening to the story of consciousness emerging from stardust here on Earth. Imagine a wedding where the bind is sealed by the couple and the community, not an institutional official. 

Imagine teaching children that we are the universe gazing back upon itself. Imagine teaching them that they will discover more about physics and metaphysics than we will ever know. Imagine telling them it’s ok to be spiritually ignorant. We know that new physics will emerge, and we teach kids that. We know that new biology will emerge, and we teach kids that. Why wouldn’t we then teach children that spiritual truth is emergent — that they will figure it out more than we ever can?

In my experience, it is when we see our role in the grand cosmic evolution of the universe that we find peace with the pains of the day. It is when we come face to face with our mortality that we find our morality. 

My biggest hope for the success of this work is not copies sold, it is that it works well enough that, years from now, some other Emergent replaces it with their book, which sells better than mine. When our grandchildren’s grandchildren sit in temples for the Sun—on the Moon—I hope this book makes it to the temple library.

There’s an old expression common around the military: “There’s no atheists in foxholes.” There’s also not so many atheists anywhere. Most of us believe there is mystery beyond our knowing, and I’m proud to be part of the generation embracing an independent mindset without embracing the arrogance of atheism. We ought to be proud of accepting our ignorance, not indignant that other humans don’t agree with whatever conclusion we’ve come to about the nature of spiritual and religious truth. 

I once was almost lost.

The ICU front-desk attendant asked me to repeat myself. 

“I said — I am going to get a burger. And a beer.”

He told me that was not ok. Not a good idea. The doctors were waiting on test results, and I was supposed to sit on the bench and wait to hear if I was to be admitted. If I had to be sedated, a heavy meal and alcohol could interfere with all the medical stuff. 

I smiled, and tried to relax my eyes and drop my shoulders, the way an old midwestern grandma might deliver bad news, as charmingly as non-threateningly she could. 

“I’m going now. You can’t stop me. I’ll call an attorney.”

He got upset. I stayed calm. 

About fifteen minutes later, I was seated, with a beer, coughing, looking out on downtown Asheville, North Carolina at a restaurant called Farmburger, where you can—should need to indulge like it’s your last meal—add a duck egg, French cheese, and bone marrow to your burger. I think I got a Firewater IPA, or maybe a Shiva from Asheville Brewing Company. I walked back to the hospital and strode into the ICU like a cowboy riding off a cliff while looking up at the sunset, disassociating from his potentially impending death. My wife, Courtney, was frantically gathering up our daughter, about 45 minutes away, taking her to my parents’ place, then planning to rush to the hospital. 

While confrontationally upset that I had been drinking, the doctor sat me down in a waiting area because the CT results weren’t yet ready. I snapped back that surely I wasn’t the only person in the ER who had been drinking, as I coughed and winced in pain. If the CT showed something going on beyond inflammation in my lungs, I might be charged straight into the ICU. I can’t tell you in detail because I don’t remember because I was drinking and quite sick. But, if it didn’t show cancer or something like that, nobody knew what to do. I couldn’t stop coughing up blood, mostly in the middle of the night. 

If I had a time machine, I would tell myself to skip the burger and beers, and write what’s in this book as a letter to my little daughter, as quickly as I could — in case I didn’t make it. I believe with all my heart that building infrastructure for people who identify as spiritual but not religious will build the best world for her. It’s when we’re full of gratitude for the miracle of consciousness that we make choices to be healthy and happy, and to help others be healthy and happy as well. I would say this: “Kiddo, if you only learn one thing from me, learn this: gratitude for existing is how we keep existing.”
EMERGENT

“A large drum may sit silently 
but when banged?
What noise!”
----
The Tao Te Ching 
Verse 41 

Lao Tzu
1—Worship What Is

We can—and should—worship the stars from which we are born.

Homo sapiens love to worship stuff.

According to the internet, the oldest known religious relic is a lion-headed figurine of a person. Perhaps a lioness, and a goddess. Or perhaps a hunter and a lion’s mane. 

People still love to worship stuff. While mainstream religions are experiencing rapid declines in participation, religious life is still the fabric of many communities. Religious practices like Christmas transcend cultural boundaries, and are often comfortably celebrated by people of other faiths. My Jewish cousins gave my Hanukkah gifts, while my Aunt informally taught me prayers in Hebrew. My parents gave them Christmas gifts, after they attended our Christmas Pageant at church. Statistically, this kind of culture crossing is happening hundreds of thousands of times—if not millions of times—for every time a hate crime happens in America. 

The “new year” is basically a religious tradition, albeit enforced by civilian government. We use the Gregorian calendar. Gregory, for whom it was named, was a pope. We modified and fixed it, and still call it that. Fortunately, we live at a time when people are addressing these problems. Many tech companies use a consensus time and label it as such. New models of time are emerging due to satellites, space exploration, and the implicit flaws in the model of time zones we now use. 

If we wanted to use observational spiritual principles to derive time, we would use the giant light in the sky during the day and the progress bar in the sky in at night. There are 28 days in the real cycle of the moon. It’s very, very consistent. If there is a magic number coordinating life on earth, it’s 28. We have 7 days weeks because 28 divides by 7. It’s a close as human numbers get to accurately understanding time cycles. 

A good metaphor for how ancient texts might be interpreted is that they were absolutely sort of telling the truth, if we calibrate what we now know to what they say. For example, Biblical characters who live about 1,000 “years” is hard to believe, as no genetic record exists for superhuman longevity, and today it is not clear how cells and heart animation would last that long. Perhaps it’s a miracle; or, perhaps, it’s sensibly that by “years” they meant “months” and either there was no word for months or years yet, or it was lost in translation over time. These texts aren’t lying about living 1,000 years — they’re experiencing what we all experience. The windows of time machines are always foggy. 

An Emergent view on these spiritual texts may be that they are concentrations of knowledge, and while not rules of the universe to which we are bound—as we are to physics—they are valuable sources of instruction, and provide good models for moral thinking and community activity. 

I hope that there is something beyond our consciousness here, something that feels good, and makes me and my loved ones happy. I hope that—if that’s true, and I can somehow look back on life—I used spiritual texts well. These traditions are critical to understand, and I keep not my writings by my bed for spiritual comfort, but a very tattered copy of the Tao Te Ching that I’ve had for almost 30 years. I teach my children to listen hard and pray along, as close family members offer blessings when they host us at their homes. To celebrate emergence is to celebrate the spiritual texts and traditions that have emerged, without thinking they are dead relics for us to repeat thoughtlessly, but rather explorer’s notes from the quest on which we all embark. 

We can use tools like meditation and psychedelics to cross into the mystical realm, as so many of the authors of great texts somehow did — by their accounts. We can learn from peers who are alive today, without taking any medicines, or without doing any training in meditation or deep thinking. Most things are a quick search away. Want to hear about somebody’s experience using ketamine to talk to a goddess? Search for it and sort through some videos that feel like bs and then watch the one that feels awkwardly credible. A person who might respond to you on social media is right there, telling their story. You can see it in the next minute. There are particularly powerful stories about veterans healing trauma with this work.

While spiritual discovery must be a cornerstone of the work of The Emergents, it is a small piece of the pie of day to day life for our people. For my family, the question that keeps coming up is this: what is the analog to worship for us?

We can worship the solstice and worship the harvest, just as our ancestors, as they awoke to where and what they were, as best they could.

Some families go hunting. Some fishing. Some gardening. Some sing songs. Some go mountain biking. Some talk for a few minutes around the table, and keep a symbolic Bible on the shelf. Some old, Jewish uncles lecture their Emergent nephews. 

Many people say, “This is my church.” in some way or another. Many people out fishing on Sunday morning are devout in their religious views, but don’t go to church often. Some people donate to churches, but don’t attend. To me — all of it is valid. Because I don’t think anybody quite knows what’s going on, I respect it all. 

A group I feel particularly grateful for is all the people I grew up attending church youth groups with, going to some astonishing and informative places. I remember countless beautiful moments, and experienced grace and forgiveness for what I would now label as autistic level social friction, from time to time. I was nervous and fat, and tired, and often physically and socially uncomfortable. Yet, despite all that, I had friends, comrades, and people with whom I could tight social bonds. I ended up going to prom with the homecoming queen because of church youth group. I ended up befriending a young woman who was brave and funny and a good surfer — a woman who helped shape my expectations in a partner, and whose influence I can see in my choice of my wife. It’s not that they're similar, it’s that knowing her showed my what I value in myself, and I found someone who values the same things. I think you could summarize it up that I’m a playful outside dog, even though I was stuck as an obese nerd when I was young. I’m a surfing guy, not a latest cell phone model guy. I’m glad to say we both found our way to adventures in Southern Appalachia, and to the beaches of Southern California, along our wildly different life journeys. Thank you, sunshine girl. 

Among these people, I sat in itchy robes, waiting to sing Christmas carols. I sat through long lectures about Biblical history — from my father, a suffering no other high schooler in the mix had to endure. I ate many donuts alongside my dear friends, and got to know people of every political and most cultural backgrounds. To the credit of my parents and the communities of spiritually motivated people they partnered with, we spent thousands of hours doing service work, helping the homeless, or cleaning the nearby beach. 

I don’t remember worship as the highlight of anyone’s time among my peer group. Socialization was. I don’t remember deep religious debates, so much as deep pontifications about identity. I now would surmise that teenagers do this everywhere, and a religious pretext fans the flames of self discovery. 

Among all these things, there is a typically unspoken truth that atheist or agnostic is a very offensive position to take. The elders of the church, the leaders, the donors, and God’s sake the little old ladies! are all there with certainty about the situation. It’s OK to ask questions, but it’s not OK to question the premise. 

One of the bits of spiritual logic I heard a LOT as a kid asking countless questions was that it’s fine to believe in another religion. I think my parents told me I could go to Synagogue with my aunt, instead, if I wanted. I liked it enough, but there was a lot to memorize. I know they sent me off to a Unitarian Universalist gathering once. I complained that it was full of vegetarian people wearing Birkenstock sandals. 

“You can’t worship nothing.” 

It’s not true. You can worship what we know. 

We can worship what we know. 

We can observe, and be grateful. The world is full of wonder and mystery, and that’s a great thing to worship. 

We live at a time when it’s no longer animism to believe that plants can communicate with one another. Recent studies suggest that mushrooms have a language, communicated with electrical signals, which, if they were audible, would resemble something like human or bird like speech. Crows have rich language. Parakeets are reported to know upwards of 40 words. 

Stardust vibrated for billions of years, then became conscious, eventually writing this book. 

We can worship that we emerged. We can worship that seasons pass. We can worship love. We can worship the Solstice. We can worship Harvest. 

If God is the maker of all things—or, in fact, all things—then surely that counts are worshiping God. If there is no God, then I’ll be damned grateful for emerging from the stardust when my time is over. 

Observational Spiritual Practice is—basically—creating spiritual philosophy and spiritual life within the boundaries of what exists for sure.

The notion of “first principles thinking” has become popularized by leading entrepreneurs and investors in “Silicon Valley” — really the global tech community. At its core, the idea means that you look at what’s irrefutable, and work from there. This could mean that—if it’s irrefutable that to get enough materials to power our future we need to explore space—we need to invest in exploring space and surely the demand will be there. If it’s irrefutable that we have to take carbon dioxide out of our atmosphere to survive the future, then we have to invest in building machines that do that. 
 
When we apply first principle thinking to spiritual practice, one quick conclusion that’s easy to draw is that we need to earnestly look at what is around us using Observational Spiritual Practice (OSP). OSP is a lens through which we can work to form consensus on things. While it would be nice to establish a Shared Objective Reality, it that may or may not exist, and is thus a bit too bold, even for new religious identity level ambitions. But we can establish consensus on things we all observe. That shared consensus is the building block upon which all other things can be built. 

Perhaps the greatest controversy is life after death. In my personal experience coordinating with thousands of other humans across my life, I’ve found that various camps are certain. My devout Christian friends and family are certain they will consciously exist in an afterlife. My participating-but-unsure Christian friends—which include my father who went to Princeton Seminary and a mother whose own forecast for her afterlife is something along the lines of “turning into perpetual radiant beauty”—basically have their fingers crossed. I like that technique, to be clear. Hindu friends somewhat believe in reincarnation; they can take great solace that reincarnation is happening around us all the time. The energy I’m using to type words was in salsa last night. My friends who are part of the psychedelic renaissance in places where that’s legal tend towards some sort of perpetual-ignorance non-dualism, knowing that all things are connected, but also wondering about simulation theory. Even simulation theory offers hope that maybe we’re a player in the game, not just a non-player character being rendered for temporary use. In that case, there is also an afterlife. 

When we apply Observational Spiritual Practice to these questions of afterlife, we can quickly see the debate between them is partisan and designed to keep the clear victor out of the ring. We don’t know. That’s the answer. 

I once met a priest who was certain I would need someone to pray for me. I told him I didn’t want to pray, that I had no idea what would happen next, and to go away because I was going to live anyway. This was fifteen before the time described in the opening of the book. This time they admitted me. The doctors called my family and told them to drive fast. They said my hours were so short, my mother drove through the night for 13 hours to try to catch my fading glimpse. They told me it was my time. I had already crashed and been plugged full of machines to survive. My feet held to the philosophical fire, I met the test summed up by the adage often spoken in military and political circles that “there are no atheists in foxholes” — meaning there are no non-believers at the verge of knowing death. 

That’s not true. At the end, you can be full of gratitude, full of hope, and full of questions. I told the priest that I was going to live, and if I was going to die, I didn’t want a Christian blessing. Currently, my bet was called, that’s where I placed my chips. Thanks to a brilliant doctor, I survived. Now I know I’d like to die ancient, in nature, with a campfire burning as I doze off under a starry night. I still don’t want a Christian blessing last minute, just in case—so to speak. I refuse to teach my children they will revert to a desperate, atavistic understanding of the mystery of the universe when they themselves are at their—hopefully very, very distant —end. Until we have the equivalent of a telephone for talking to dead consciousness, we don’t know if we live on.

It may seem an odd time to mention Daniel Boone, the American frontiersman. Both hero and villain, family man and wilderness warrior, Boone embodied the human need to push the frontier for his time. If I knew a similar story of the Dineh, the Cherokee, the Choctaw, I would tell it now. But I’m an American white man, and Boone’s is the one I know. It helps that it took place within a half-day’s drive of where I now stand in a barn writing this book for you. 

Daniel Boone went beyond the pale. Not just beyond his emotional comfort zone, but into captivity by hostile First Peoples. Into the brutal murder of one of his party. Into the capture, suffering, and death of his child. He didn’t go there because he was crazy, and I’d like to think he wouldn’t have gone if he knew his boy would die. As I understand it, he went and stayed and fought through because of the shocking beauty of what he found beyond the boundaries of the institutional government territory in which he was born and raised. 

The frontier is not always comfortable. The frontier can be dangerous, and children need special training to do well in those conditions. 

But the frontier is not always the frontier. Boone’s frontier was what we now call Southeast Kentucky. 

The time is right for a new spiritual frontier. 

What are the truths we can now know? What practices are compatible with this new world? 

Mainstream faiths are the new faiths. Worshiping the stars and the harvest go back much longer in human history. We need a single visual symbol, like every mainstream faith has. I propose a hexagon with a circle in it, like the carbon from which our consciousnesses emerges.

Christian miracles seem to have ended. None have withstood internet scrutiny. Why is that? It’s hard to imagine some system of physics or biology whereby people could have miracles, roughly 370,000 years into human evolution, but now can’t, just 2,000 years later. That’s roughly 0.5% later in human evolution. I’m comfortable saying YouTube killed the physical miracle meme, and Reddit will keep it from coming back. A popular form of miracle meme used to be bleeding or weeping sculptures. None have  been proven true, and one that truly defied physics by emitting a liquid from marble or stone would be the most extraordinary artifact on Earth, defying all we know about physics. 

A lot of the fundamental philosophies of the Bible are inoperable today. They are designed for tribes, not emergent cultural waves in an era of immediate global interconnection. The best example is the “golden rule” — do unto others as you would have them do unto you. This is only functional for monocultures. I’ll give you a quick example. There is a growing movement of veterans using psychedelics to deal with PTSD. Let’s imagine two people whose adult sons are in the military, and who come home with PTSD. The first father is a psychotherapist in Portland, Oregon, where psychedelics are legal to prescribe; the second a Baptist minister in rural Georgia. The two veterans are friends and visit Oregon for a hunting trip together. There, the father who is the psychotherapist gives both men psychedelics. The Baptist father finds out and is outraged. The psychotherapist father is shocked because he, too, is a Christian. He trusted psychedelics to heal PTSD and did unto the preacher’s son as he would have had the preacher do to his son. The Baptist father sees it inverse. He thinks drugs are morally wrong and doesn’t even drink alcohol. He’s enraged, but perplexed. The other father did obey the golden rule. 

When we really dig into the golden rule, it robs us of the right to adapt our behaviors. It’s implicitly and explicitly a way to force your culture on other people; then defend yourself because your intentions were guided by the supposedly righteous Biblical rule. It’s super helpful as a mechanism for testing one’s own morality. My criticism is that it’s far from perfect; not lacking good.

Adults need to treat others in a complex way, adapting over time, listening, and balancing complex needs. For example, I love elk steak. If I visit a Jainist temple on vacation—the Jains are famously vegetarian for the last couple millennia—and offer them elk steak because it’s what the golden rule dictates, I deeply offend them. If I fall in love with Jain cuisine and take a huge feast back to a rodeo in Montana, which I love now, then I will also offend some people. I need to do unto others as they’d like to have done to them, not as I’d like done for me. 

Because memes like the golden rule are so deeply embedded in our culture maps as being righteous, we don’t criticize them enough. The same is true—in a much more horrific way—about our religious leaders. The pretense of righteousness insulates them from the scrutiny. That’s not spiritually honest. We should think about how we think about things. It’s like a superpower we have, and we owe it to God, to The Universe, to The Addressable Unknown to the best we have with the conscious minds we’ve got.

Also: The pope doesn’t have a phone to call Jesus. The Vatican Archives are not open source, which, one might assume, you would do if you possessed unassailable truth of the nature of the divine. (Unless it’s somehow destructive to the world to release it? Sounds like a good Dan Brown novel, and a preposterous explanation for keeping thousands of years of secrets when your purpose is divine light and joy.) Seminaries don’t have security clearances. There is not a secret formal infrastructure regulating human connection to the divine. The most senior religious leaders generally don’t perceive themselves to possess knowledge unattainable to any other person. The best ones will tell you that about themselves. 

There are religious leaders who are wonderful people. I would wager it’s about half, in fact. How they stand idly by people hijacking the same job titles for power, money, and the ability to abuse children is unthinkable to me. In France, just in the past few years, about 1 in 3 Catholic priests has been indicted or prosecuted for child sex abuse or for covering up child sex abuse. Imagine if we found out that 1 of 3 employees at Walmart was complicit somehow in child sex trafficking. No reasonable person would shop there or work there, let alone allow a child in the building. I understand the desire to maintain an ancient faith, but I believe there has to be a moral threshold at which you say that too many toxic things have happened to associate with something. 

There are religious leaders who explored psychedelics at the highest levels. Huston Smith, long-time chair of the Harvard Divinity School, participant in early psychedelic research with Timothy Leary and wrote a book about psychedelics and the religious experience. To ignore psychedelic-induced mystical experience is possibly to ignore some of the most important and famous Biblical lessons, which sound a lot like psychedelics. (Joseph and his technicolor dream coat…) 

The same is true for the Torah. When Moses saw God in a burning bush, he was burning the acacia bush, rich in the psychedelic DMT. Encountering God and being ordained in a life mission is actually a relatively common experience under high doses of DMT. A research project at Johns Hopkins found that there are correlate doses of psilocybin (mushrooms), and even frog snot extracted 5MEO-DMT that can also occasion a mystical experience. This interpretation aligns with this history we know much better. There are books now showing the direct lineage of the Egyptian and Eleusinian mystery traditions to psychedelic rites. They connect the freemasons to the same rites, as perpetual heirs to this awakening. I sincerely believe Moses saw God in a bush that was burning. That bush was acacia and burning in a pipe or some kind of incense burner contraption people used to smoke DMT back then. 

Think of all the dream interpreters in the Bible. They are explicitly shamanic. Those dreams and visions may have been actual sleeping dreams, but many of them sound more like waking psychedelic visions. The clarity and magic of the visions, in particular, is more classically psychedelic than dream state. Foreshadowing, synthesizing the past, time travel — these are all Biblical dreams, and well-documented trends in psychedelic users. 

The famous multi-armed Hindu gods and goddesses are representative of the time-bending visual illusions that some psychedelics induce. That is how people around you look when you are on them, as your brain isn’t processing time on the same neural architecture while in the medicine. Even the bastard Santa Claus is typically painted with little psychedelic mushrooms all around him. 

In our desire to honor what our ancestors honored, we have abandoned their deep, practical, observational mysticism for a controlled climate of religious practice. We came from people who lived close to the land, and turned into people afraid of the land. We came from people active in spiritual discovery, and have turned into people who view that stage of the journey as done long ago, with notes left for us to trust. We came from people who knew their ignorance, and have come to follow people who pretend they are not ignorant. Today, we suffer a postmodern meta flaw, where the false idols can mostly be found among people warning you about the dangers of following false idols. 

How, then, do we worship in our own way, one that attracts people to participate in our movement? How do we teach values and morals? 

As I’ve discussed these ideas with friends and family for the past few years, these questions arise again and again. People need to believe that they have a box checked for their moral identity, and would rather have a loosely fitting system from which they are mostly disassociated than perceive they have nothing at all. It comes to feel like a possession, and losing that bit of identity, a real loss. But it’s not, and it feels great to come out as Emergent. 

Trying to understand the nature of existence by observation is the oldest spiritual practice. Psychedelic journeys, likely the next. Just as with our brothers and sisters of the New Faiths, many of which are just a couple of thousand years old, we Emergents have to teach values and morals, and ways to worship what is. We are not inventing something new; we’re participating in the oldest possible faith. That is humbly not knowing the answers. 

Without diving deep into it, I propose that the New Faiths are susceptible to all sorts of problems because they’re built on worshiping something more than What Is. They worship their ancestors with special metaphysical abilities—saints—and they worship deities no one can interact with. Instead of the trees, and the sunset, and the emergence of consciousness, they worship What Isn’t. This gives the humans in charge of that process deep control into the psyche of everyone who accepts their leadership. 

The Emergents can worship what is. The sunrise. The emergence of consciousness. Work. Love. Play. Art. Science. Community. 

If celebrating the sunset, or taking an hour to express gratitude that consciousness emerged from the stardust, or making art to celebrate our interconnection — if these things are not good enough or big enough for you or your metaphysical desires, then you should stick with New Faiths. They provide you something bigger and better than this world. If this layer of reality is stunning to you and more than deserving of reverence and worship in its own right, then you might be an Emergent. 

A big advantage of worshiping the sun is that it is—decisively—not a new religious practice. It’s hard to say how far it goes back, and would require a proper scholar of religious history to make a claim. On first principles, it’s likely long before we conceive of humans as having a religion. At the very least, it goes back to Ra, the Egyptian Sun God, Huitzilopochtli, the Aztec, or Amaterasu, the Japanese Sun Goddess — and nearly every variety of indigenous practice, from the Dineh (Navajo) Tsohanoai to the Cherokee Unelanuhi. Perhaps we can find traditions to carry forward in these grand traditions, or perhaps the long arch of the tradition is the basis of claims of legitimacy in the eyes of the law. 

Being Emergent is not being free of values. It’s drawing conclusions about how we treat ourselves and one another— and the entire universe around us—based on what we learn through Observational Spiritual Practice. It should be clear that suffering is bad, and it is our intention to stop or minimize it when possible. It should be crystal clear that we do no harm; that we are honest at times we proclaim our honesty; that we are humble about what is true, spiritually, and always accept that another may very well be right; and that we emerge from the stardust.

Ultimately, I believe—on a personal level, not one I propose you follow—that the Emergents should be using Bayesian-style analysis to ask and answer spiritual questions. An oversimplified explanation of this type of analysis might be that it relies on having two data points, not just one. You have the bit of information. Then a score for how well you know that. From there you can create layer upon stacking layer of validation through high scores. 

I would start with this: does karma exist? Can AI help us figure out? Do people get rewarded and punished for their intent and their action?

If you think that’s obvious, or easy to prove one way or another, you and I disagree on the current state of human affairs. I think we’re at best 50% up the mountain, to the top, where there is a plain clear view of what, where, why, how, and when we are.

It may probe important how the Emergents use—or don’t use—the word God. To me, the accurate name for what exists beyond our horizons of knowing is The Addressable Unknown. I would include the experiences humans can have beyond the mystical veil as part of this; but also the likely vast set of knowledge beyond the capacity of our meat bodies to perceive, understand, or intuit. I would also include the Gods and Goddesses of most religious practices here. With all of it, I know only that my monkey brain cannot process what it is; and that it’s not nothing. 

I would actually like to start saying God, but that signals to most people something in their mind, which has nothing to do with what I have in my mind. That is OK, but I would like to extend past this. Perhaps we Emergents should all start saying God. Perhaps somebody, some child somewhere, should make up a new word. Perhaps the Addressable Unknown is fine for me and that’s all that matters. I don’t know. I want to end this chapter with that humility, given my certainty expressed in the rest of it. 

I would like to add this special note to anyone offended who kept reading: Thank you. You are a testament to human curiosity, and showing to me a version of Christianity—or whatever your faith may be—that my father always showed to me, when I peppered him with questions about faith, as he studied remotely at Princeton Seminary when I was a teenager. 

No matter what I questioned, he always reminded me of this: 

“Jesus isn’t weak. Jesus isn’t fragile. He was there with me in Vietnam, and he’s there with the worst junkie on the street right now — as we should be. He’s definitely not afraid of a smartass teenager questioning the truth of the Bible.” (Dramatic pause.) “I, on the other hand, might be getting annoyed…”

A core precept of being “Emergent” is that my father may be right. We don’t know. So — I will continue to study the Bible, and teach parts of it to my children. But I’ll use the very best of my intellectual, technical, and storytelling capacity to probe and discover new spiritual truths within it, and I won’t dedicate my life to what I don’t know to be true. I will respect it as though it may be, but as one of many contenders. (If I had to place a bet, I think the mystery is beyond anything humans have thought of yet.)

The power of culture certainly has a freight train of momentum going towards Christian and other religious traditions. The symbols of faiths have been branded into truly everything imaginable. You can get t-shirts with crosses on them. You can get belts with crosses on them. You can get custom fit camouflage patterned silicone wedding rings in any color you want with — with a cross on it. You can get anything in the world with a cross on it. Or a star of David, for the most part. Or, in other countries especially, any type of branded product with any type of symbol on it. We live in an era of bath towels and shower curtains with the Ohm symbol the world round.

The Emergents will need a symbol. Saying that anyone should use whatever they want because we’re agnostics — I get that. But it’s not effective at building community. There is a Judeo-Christian idea of shibboleth. It is a secret handshake, of sorts. A key phrase or behavior that lets people around you know your spiritual identity. It came from a time of oppression, when being a Christian was a crime in some places. People would purportedly draw a curved line in the sand, and if the other person drew the other curved line to make a fish, they were a Christian as well. Today, the phrase “speak shibboleth” means finding a way to connect to someone on a shared culture. 

A simple example might be two new employees on the first day of a new job, during training, both noticing cross tattoos on their arms, and might sit together during lunch, quietly closing their eyes before the meal, and making a knowing eye contact with one another in silence afterward. They spoke shibboleth and got away with praying in the open at an American workplace. 

A more subtle example might be a setting like a public concert in a big public park. A young family is approaching the few remaining spots to put out a blanket in the packed park. The approaching family is devoutly Catholic and sensitive to things like drinking, smoking, and cursing around their kids. They look around, and they can sit next to a family that’s got CA wine out on their blanket and a dad hitting a vape pen. They see a family where all the men are wearing camo, despite it being June, when almost nothing is legally open to hunt. And they see a family with khakis, lawn chairs on top of blankets, where the mom and grandma both have on shirts for fundraisers for Catholic charities. It’s no surprise to most people that the family chooses the fellow Catholics to sit next to. The part I’m highlighting isn’t the choice: it’s the t-shirts. It’s the giant cross branded into the t-shirt design. It’s the signal that says, “We share your values and culture.” 

Emergents need to be able to speak shibboleth to one another. This book is my way of screaming shibboleth to you.

We’re going to need a symbol. Our Cross. Our Star of David (Which is just two lines away from being a hexagon, if you think about it.)

While it’s up to everybody to do their thing when they’re Emergents, in my opinion there is an ideal symbol. It’s basically carbon, or representative of carbon and many other things. A hexagon with a circle in the middle of it. 

A hexagon with a circle in it is very much what a carbon molecule looks like under a powerful microscope. Lattices of hexagons, pentagons, and heptagons largely construct our world at one layer of reality. We represent chemicals this way when we do chemistry, but it’s also (three-dimensionally) true. The symbol represents that we know consciousness is built on carbon; discovering that is a critical human achievement. 

The circle represents our unity; the hexagon our differences. The circle represents our energy; the hexagon our structure. The circle represents the eternal; the hard angles of the hexagon represent what comes to an end. Finally, the symbol is used throughout the artifacts we engineer as a species. From synthesizers to Allen wrenches and their bolts, we find hexagons and circles working together. 

Every name I can think of for the circle in the hexagon is lame. Hexa-circle. Hircle. The Carbon Totem. Carbonica. See? Lame AF. What are your ideas? Hit me up on Twitter.

So, I propose this is our symbol. If somebody has it on their hat, they’re an Emergent. 


What do we do with these indicators when we see them? We find each other and build things people like us love. 

“Speaking shibboleth” is a Christian tradition, will know it was a secret mechanism for people to safely convey their shared faith to one another. The story goes that early Christians, persecuted for their illegal faith, couldn’t introduce themselves as followers of Christ when meeting strangers. So, a subtle ritual emerged, giving one person the ability to flirt at being Christian without admitting it. The story goes that, around a campfire, one person would draw a curved line in the sand. If the other later sat there and drew another curved line making a fish, they would both know that each other was a Christian because of this reference to the parable of the loaves and fishes, wherein Jesus fed a festival-sized crowd of people with a few loaves of bread and a few fishes. 

When we speak shibboleth to one another as Emergents, perhaps we find the “just right” fellow parent at the playground and our kids start having play dates, and we eventually celebrate solstice together one year. Perhaps we find the right person to ask out for a first date, or maybe we choose a professor because of the subtle waking eye on their baseball cap during freshmen orientation. 

In my ideal world, we build intentional community, and schools, and camps and even temples here and there. We build to honor the past and build to foster the future. 

In the world of psychedelic psychotherapy, and in ancillary communities, people often identify as “pre-awakening” and “post-awakening” — that makes sense if you’ve been through a psychedelic awakening. For many, you don’t come out the other side liberal or conservative, capitalist or communist, but part of the grand master of the universe, one of a trillion experiments around the galaxies. But this is a problematic distinction for many reasons. It’s not safe for some people to use psychedelics. Many people have a powerful awakening on a hike or just meditating on the subway, or listening to a favorite album. Some people are just (seemingly) born very centered and spiritually connected, and both want and need to stay stone-cold sober their whole lives. Also: it just sounds obnoxious to talk on a plane about being “post awakening” with someone, well intended as you may be, as I was yesterday on a plane saying those very words. 

Maybe one day, in general, people identifying as Emergent are more inclusive and more honest. It’s not about psychedelics or waking eye necklaces. It’s about living a life of gratitude for existing. It’s about believing spiritual truth is enhanced by contemporary understanding of math, science and engineering, not threatened, clouded, or destroyed by today’s truth or the infinite truths yet to emerge.

͏
“The only way to live is by accepting each minute as an unrepeatable miracle.”
----
Storm Jameson 

2—The Emergents

My parents are Presbyterian. My aunt, uncle, and cousins are Jewish. My other cousins are Catholic. My kids are Emergent.

I’m going to teach my daughter she’s an Emergent. 

Her cousins are Christian. Her second cousins are Jewish. Her cousin’s cousins are loosely Mennonite.  Out to fourth cousins, and they’re Blackfeet. Her grandparents are Presbyterian, a bit Animist, Catholic, and Cowboy. Her great-grandparents are all those things and Mormon because the Presbyterians had ventured from Mormon to Methodist to Presbyterian, based on geography. In the Dakotas, they were Mormon; in Illinois, Methodist; and in Florida, Presbyterian.

Descending from all those faiths, and likely many more, my daughter, today is an Emergent. 

What our family believes is that humans are still figuring it out. We are the stardust come self-aware, staring back unto itself. We are the quantum observers of our reality, and we have only known that for a couple of generations. We believe it’s OK to be spiritually ignorant. 

On the race to understand what, where, and why we are — we believe humans are mid-journey. We have many beautiful guesses as to how our physics and metaphysics work, but no certainty. 

Accepting this ignorance offers us freedom, and can make life more fun. Knowing you are an Emergent is knowing that the future to unfold is more important than the past to be told.

(Note: My dad technically identifies as generally Presbyterian, but in retirement from a career in the church, he readily discusses that his views are technically also a bit animist, especially with higher-level lifeforms, and a bit Taoist in respect to quantum physics or astronomy. What we share is a curious acceptance of our ignorance.)

As an Emergent, I love you.

It may be that the most dangerous expression in America right now is “As an x, I feel y.” 

As a Democrat, I feel…
As a Republican, I feel…
As a doctor, I feel…
As a lawyer, I feel…
As a survivor, I feel…
As a religious person, I feel…

It’s your passport to your statements arriving unscrutinized in the other person’s mind. The Entitlement Clause, I call it in my mind— although that is an entirely different thing in the legal system. Because of your rapidly established expertise and higher proximity to (and relevance to?) the subject, your words are better and should land harder. 

It’s not actually that passport. It’s an ego appetizer to a microwave meal of thought. 

Knowledge and accuracy are emergent phenomena. Experience is only one among many tools for knowing, and experience can’t keep up with the flow of discovery in which we now live. Even the world’s greatest expert on an extremely niche subject ought to check a search engine before making definitive statements. 

When we accept that the future will likely find us foolish in our ignorance, we accept that identity-based claims to knowledge like this are weak sauce.

The only claim an Emergent can make in this format is, “As an Emergent, I will know more tomorrow than I do today.” 

When you give the future more power than the past, you take away the need to extract power from the past. Credentials fall to concurrent collaboration. This is true for institutions and individuals alike.

I would be very proud of my kids for focusing their identity on what we’re learning—what’s emerging—rather than what their ancestors believed. To be clear, that is fully understanding and honoring what their ancestors believed; acknowledging that the long arch of human progress is a many splendid journey, and we are discovering new things about ourselves and the universe in which we live every day. Those things are outside the realm of what our ancestors could conceive of, and we honor them more by understanding that if we could teleport them here, they would more likely be struck with awe and fear and wonder at encountering, for example, virtual reality, than they would be certain that they understood the same world—literally the same Earth and soil from which they came—in which they had always lived, but now could not understand. 


Once Emergent is an identity, it’s also a demographic. That’s great for us.

Creating a brand is a skill. I feel lucky to have had mentors who taught me some of this skill. While it doesn’t seem right to name them, it feels ok to say that my mentors and former colleagues have rebranded Coca-Cola, rebranded avocados, and rebranded disgraced politicians back into heroes. Rather than prove all this, I’ll say my wife’s Emmy sits in our bedroom, and our children have no idea what it is. My daughter thinks it’s a fairy sculpture, and sometimes decorates it.

“A brand is a promise.” That idea has been reinforced into me in every possible way that a young guy working in advertising technology in LA in the 00’s can hear it. That is to say, a thousand times, from a hundred people. 

People think a brand is a logo. That is true as much as it is true that Christianity is a religion about a cross. 

It is a bit uncomfortably true, in a passionless assessment. But it’s also wildly incorrect. But then, the deeper the knowledge of the human mind and how we store symbolic structures, perhaps it is somehow vaguely true; but simultaneously, a failure to describe what’s really happening. 

A rebranding designed for what Agnosticism needs will be less about symbols and more about knowing where people already are, emotionally and culturally. An entire generation of young people wear waking eye t-shirts and waking eye jewelry. There are so many waking eye tattoos that the design would become trite if it weren’t already established as a cultural currency of people who know their membership in a religion with no name. 

I have geometric tattoos of my design on my forearms, representing a deeply personal symbolism. When I encounter people with very similar shapes, it has proven (almost) consistently true that they share my values and my beliefs, to some extent. I have an old friend with a big cross tattoo, and I know that she experienced the same thing many times with, for example, fellow Christians in the gym. 

The Emergents are already here. We just need an operational, coordinated, legal framework. This is how we get our rights.

Having “Emergent” as a checkbox on AI, search, and social media advertising platforms will allow entrepreneurs and global brands alike to reach people like us directly. This is a good thing because they will then have incentive to design products for us. When we buy them, we will fund those companies’ growth. They will expand, and their marketing will likely turn to content marketing. Now the products being sold to us are featured on mainstream video streaming platforms and popular shows. Now more people think that’s cool. And so we enter the meme space of first America, then the world. As a checkbox to sell cool hexagon t-shirts, food that hasn’t been messed, and things like that — to the Emergents. 
͏
“Man is a Religious Animal. He is the only Religious Animal. He is the only animal that has the True Religion--several of them.” 
----
Mark Twain 
3—Emergent Values

The journey to find spiritual truth is again a first-hand experience, not just something to read about in ancient texts.

For the purposes of Dear Human, the term “woo woo” shall mean as follows: evangelizing a worldview where there is no boundary required between earnest mystical and metaphysical exploration, and loosely understood adages, clichés, and practices of a random assemblage of practices one has encountered. 

I am not woo woo. I don’t propose Emergents be automatically woo woo. You’re welcome if you’re woo woo. I’m not even one woo. I drive a pickup truck — with lifts! I will spend this weekend preparing for hunting season, setting cameras and fertilizing feed crops. Not to throw a skunk on your dinner table, but any notion you might get that I’m a Birkenstock wearing new age spirituality guy is about as right as expecting a bear to be vegetarian. If you met me in the city you might write me off as a dad bro, and in the country as another bubba. You won’t find a prayer bead or incense stick in this book. You won’t find a checklist or any Sanskrit, either. You will find a long and detailed bear huntin’ metaphor. That’s the kind of guy I am, and reflective of the real me. 

I believe we don’t understand our reality, and I believe there is a mystical dimension to the human experience. I am by no means alone in experiencing these mystical phenomena. A generation of leaders in technology and science have now used psychedelics to experience mystical phenomena themselves, and revered research institutions have recorded, researched, and published in journals documenting these experiences. 

We must accept the metaphysical consequence of this: humans can reliably occasion mystical experiences, basically on demand. That means the ancient religious practice of interpreting other people’s mystical experiences through writings and teachings is not the highest form of spiritual pursuit. Diving first hand into the mystical realm is. 

Emergent is old-school not new age.
I border on giggles when I read most “new age” spiritual texts. A congregation of people published a litany of texts—especially in Southern California, especially in the 80s and 90s—that offered new solutions for religion. These cut-from-raw-cloth solutions often synthesized Buddhist, Christian, and Neo-shamanic practices. Most of them were the equivalent of spiritual diet fads, and don’t deserve exploration. Some were more aligned with Scientology style thinking than ancient practices somehow suddenly rediscovered, perhaps the most common theme. 

Anybody claiming they have figured out spirituality, metaphysics, or religion cannot be an Emergent. To be an Emergent is to know our ignorance, rather to evangelize our certainty. 

But from that place of humility, we have the freedom to ask what matters in a new way. Not what mattered in the past that should still matter now, but instead: what is important today that will also be important as new understanding emerges? 

New age spiritualities built on “alternate metaphysical solutions” may actually be right. An Emergent holds this possibility in its place, and honors it when that is appropriate. But an Emergent does not believe that any person will one day magically derive the spiritual truths of the universe. 

There are very few ideas in the long history of humans grasping at understanding spiritual truth for which I have contempt and won’t consider. The one main one is stone-cold agnosticism. It’s a crack in the foundation of your intellectual integrity if you think you have enough data to declare that you know metaphysical truth. You don’t. We might live in a simulation. A religion might be true. Or truth may be emerging. 

(In Bayesian term, nerds, you don’t have the priors.)

You do you.

As this book progresses, we will focus increasingly on the idea of “spiritual alignment” — meaning that your actions and your beliefs are in sync. In the Japanese classic masterpiece “The Book of Five Rings” the author, Miyamoto Musashi describes the alignment of one’s sword, one’s tongue, and one’s philosophical mind. When the three act in harmony, life is good by samurai standards. I think of this all the time. In my case, it’s my mind, my body, and my beliefs. I try to keep them aligned. This book is a massive attempt at aligning my beliefs with my lifestyle. This way of living can be very difficult, but feels, well, aligned. Another way to think of this is that we all might be happier when we have very little cognitive dissonance between how we think we should live, and how we actually live day to day.

From the core concept of spiritual alignment, I think each person, family, and community of Emergents can define their values. That’s not up to me. 

But here’s what I’ll propose as starting points, written on a big (conceptual) whiteboard. 

Integrity—Behave in ways that make you proud to be accountable for your actions, and discuss them with other people.

Earnestness—Be real, and describe reality. Label stories as stories.

Alignment—Work to align yourself with the Universe as it emerges. Listen for The Addressable Unknown to provide further clues to the mysteries.

Emergence—Expect our values to change over time — to perpetually emerge. 

Build Tools to Help Others—The Technology Frontier is a form of Spiritual Discovery—Use the tools on the frontier of technology to pursue spiritual truth. Building aligned tools for spiritual discovery is a high calling. Use technology to predict outcomes, and ask if today’s perspective and plan will continue to address the first four values over time.

Connect with Nature—We are born of the Earth, and we should enjoy every bit of the miracle on which we live. As it turns out, sun exposure and vitamin D production are critical to our species, as is fresh air. Gratitude all the way down. 
͏
“Let us rise up and be thankful, for if we didn't learn a lot today, at least we learned a little, and if we didn't learn a little, at least we didn't get sick, and if we got sick, at least we didn't die; so, let us all be thankful.”
----
Zen Buddhist prayer 
4—Emergent as a Demographic

I’m proud to say I’m Emergent. I cringe at “agnostic,” even though, by any definition, Emergent thinking is agnostic by academic definitions.

Agnostic is a tarnished label. 

My many estimates, 25-30% of Americans are spiritual but not religious. The majority of those people believe in a Higher Power, and the majority pray — the majority of those pray daily! Yet, typically spiritual but not religious people are considered to be “none” or “nothing” by many demographic analysts and journalists. It’s nothing short of absurd to call people who believe in the divine and pray every day “nothing” in their beliefs. 

We will be stronger together as The Emergents.

Our goal is to make practiced, reverent agnosticism a peer of mainstream religions. Gratitude exercises as peers of communion services. Both reverent human actions, seeking meaning in that which the person doing the action cannot understand. 

The theory upon which the rest of this book is built is simple: it is time, right now, to start telling the spiritual truth as best we know it. There is a spiritual realm. It is addressable, and some people go there often — usually with psychedelics, but also meditation and storytelling. It is real in that humans share it, and can communicate with one another about their tourism into that space. We do not know what that is, nor where it is, nor how the uncanny consistencies across mystical experiences come to be. 

We also do not know if trees grow on other planets. Nor do we know if any other species has made a computer. 

We do not know if Jesus is God’s ambassador. We do not know if we live in a construction of Hindu Maya. For that matter, we do not know if live in a simulation.

So — where do we go from here?

To a new brand of agnosticism. One that provides honest spiritual lessons, addressing the addressable, and recognizing the unknown and unknowable. One that takes pride in every inch of progress on the million-mile path to spiritual truth. 


In short, we believe that 1) spiritual truth is emergent and will evolve and 2) humans have always worshiped the stars, which are, in a conceptual way, our most distant ancestors, and the gifts of the universe, like food and love.

How do we rebrand something that is nebulous and unknown? By finding the part of it that is fastidious and promoting it broadly and at high frequency. We have to find the brand promise and drive it home. The Emergents form communities with shared values, including a predominant focus on gratitude for the “miracle” of consciousness emerging from the stardust. 

The Emergent movement is tied to traditional practices explicitly. A compelling case exists that indigenous religions, in particular sun worship that was not deified, is strikingly similar. While personifying the Sun as Ra is not Emergent based on what we now know, revering the Sun as the source of life on Earth is very true in the most literal sense. Emergent families might hold a feast to show gratitude for the Sun, and in that way, honor contemporary scientific understanding and ancient religious beliefs at the same time. We don’t have to engage the preposterous to connect with the ancient. Surely, many of our ancestors spent their time thanking the soil, and the water, and the Sun. 

So two things will never change: the first is that truth, including spiritual truth, will continue to emerge — to evolve. The second is that humans have always done this type of worship, and always will. What is old is new again. 

That is an easy promise to make to the spiritual but not religious community. Those of us who identify as Emergent can explain at a cocktail party that we believe the miracle is the emergence of consciousness — and that’s good enough to “worship.” We believe that spiritual truth is emergent, and future generations will know more than we do, as we know more than our ancestors. And we know that humans have shown gratitude for the Earth, the Sun, and their community for as long as we can conceive history. 

We need t-shirts that say EMERGENT, so we can be proud of our identities in public.

We live in an era of rapid t-shirt printing, and low-cost design tools that can create an array of creative content in moments. New AI tools can render entire concepts with a few instructions. The Emergent movement stands to be the first spiritual movement developed in a way that is compatible with these tools, and can put them to use in earnest ways. From self-expression of young Emergents to ultra-low cost but interesting creative materials promoting events—even programming events—these tools enable to build and reinforce brands in the movement rapidly, with startup techniques to grow to reach as many spiritual but not religious people as would like to have a more formal infrastructure for their spiritual life. 

One of the biggest reformations in the history of Christianity came about because of a printing press. The Gutenberg Bible could be printed in relatively large volumes because of the novel printing press after which it was named. The press could distribute divine teachings at low cost in large numbers, taking the texts outside the secretive and powerful walls of courts, castles, and bishops. Once the people could read the text themselves, the power of priests diminished rapidly in many places. 

A generation ago, this book would be wild heresy, and dangerous to print. Today, I eagerly tell my Christian friends about it, and many express that they’re supportive of non-Christian people in their lives having a more formal spiritual identity and practice. It’s a beautiful turnabout. People who would have once been our enemies are instead our allies — while the cost to distributing information and promoting new lifestyles is as low as it's ever been. This year alone I will write this book, publish two apps supporting the Emergent movement, and have published about 100,000 words of independent writing about the technical side of software; all while starting a children’s book series with my kids, who do virtual school from home and do not have a nanny or regular babysitter, and launching a simple supporting clothing and merch line. I’ve done all of this thanks to one short-term freelance engineer, and a virtual editor. This is possible because new tools make it, so you can build new things in days and months, not years and decades. I’m not the exception, I’m the new normal.

Each piece of this movement requires someone to own it. I can only handle writing a few books, hosting some events, and building products that support the movement. That’s not enough to make a spiritual practice that’s a peer of organized religion. Not be a long shot. 

Beyond rebranding agnosticism as Emergent, we need to change the frames and memes in our heads. We are not the weak ones. We are not feebly uncertain. We have the spiritual strength to look at the situation before us and admit that we are a species just waking up from the space dust. We have only recently figured out the most basic rules of physics and computation, of the existence of other worlds seen only through microscopes and telescopes — and those of us brave enough to admit it need to be proud inside about our beliefs, not hiding from the torment of people whose uncertainty can make the dismissive, even aggressive about their beliefs. We are the ones who say that this existence is good enough to worship in its own right, and confident enough to proceed in life embracing the unknown. We are The Emergents. 
͏
“There was simply a marriage between a strand of psychological elements, which originated from quite specific moral religious roots, and capitalist opportunities for development.”
----
Max Weber 
PERSPECTIVE 

“It isn’t how you die. It’s what you live for.”
----
Daniel Boone 
5—Half-allachian

Appalachian culture has a fierce independent streak. We’re going to need some of that energy to build a new religious identity in America.

When the United States was founded, Appalachia was—for most—the Western Frontier. The revolutionary war was in 1776, and Los Angeles was founded as a pueblo in 1781. Contemporary to this, roughly, Daniel Boone and the Shawnee were fighting over Kentucky — western Appalachia. The gold rush would be about 100 years later. The Cherokee still actively managed part of Southern Appalachia, and even modern development techniques had not yet developed the majority of the land in Southern Appalachia. The railroads got to California before they got through Southern Appalachia. The desert of Phoenix was, and is, easier to deal with than Southern Appalachia, for any large-scale human endeavor. 

That says something about the people of Southern Appalachia. People who live beyond comfort, in reverent beauty. What has become known as “type 2 fun”—fun that you have to work for, like a hard hike to a good view, not fun that happens, then dissipates, like a candy bar—is the natural cultural building block of Appalachian folk. Sitting around a campfire, regaling one another with stories of a brutal breathless hike to hunt small game like a pair of squirrels, in a place you had to drive to down a long gravel road, where civilization is passing in some distant afterthought — these are the stories I know as Appalachian style, even if done not by people of Appalachian heritage. I was simultaneously born into Appalachian heritage by birthright, and am just now fully embracing it, after half a lifetime internalizing my role as a poser upon this land. A yuppy fake, attempting to find a place in a foreign land.

My dad was born in a train station in West Virginia. His mother was a teenager; his father absent. He mostly grew up in a Pennsylvania coal town, mostly raised by aunties — until his mother found a new husband and built a new life, in which he was not welcome, not home. Depending on who tells the story, he either left or was violently forced out of home in his early teens, and faked an age to get to Vietnam. The windows of time machines are always foggy. Memory is fallible, and assembled. I can’t know my father’s true past very well, and it remains confusing at times, with contradictions in personality and holes in the story so big that I blame the impact of trauma upon the mind, accept that reality with such peace that my father will be among the first to read this book, and follow what I know to be true. I know he was born somewhere to someone. I believe Vietnam was better than where he was. It seems likely his grandfather was a moonshiner, and that his father was a teenager somewhere in Appalachia. I know the Purple Hearts are real, as I used to sneak into the office safe when they were out of town to hold them, like some talisman to adventure, the way a young man misunderstands the literal hell that earned them.

Your parents’ stories are mythologies, until you are older than they are when they lived the moment in the story. When I hit peer age to their age when raising me, I came to realize how rough, lonely, and fearful my father’s young life was. In a perfect world, this wouldn’t be a common Appalachian story, but, ultimately, my dad’s story is Appalachian as fuck. I’ve always seen him his best in Appalachia, and today, he graces the campus of UNC Asheville, where he and my mother both attend and teach classes at a special institute on campus, designed to integrated retired folks into campus life. He just finished teaching a class on the Gnostic gospels—the urge to explore the spiritual frontier may be inherited. UNCA is my alma mater, and it seems fitting that—after detours for place, money, and love—our family is building a legacy around a school built initially as the Biltmore Farm School, designed to continue the ways and practices of Southern Appalachia. 

I have split my life between Southern Appalachia and the big cities of the United States. I’ve lived in or worked a lot in LA, Austin, SF, DC, New York, Miami, and Phoenix. My parents both lived in Chicago, but my mom for longer. She came from a new-wealth construction industry family in the midwest. What her family had in opportunity, it lacked in artistry. My grandfather spent his closing decades watching golf on TV, pilfering his fortune.

So now I stand on my land, looking out on Mount Mitchell—the tallest peak east of the Mississippi River—and teach my kids that I am half Appalachian. 

Half-allachian is a distinctly American blend. I’ve started three tech startups, and I’m taking my little girl squirrel hunting for Thanksgiving this year. I donate to an organization gives you a PRIDE themed gun rights patch, and I proudly support queer people of all stripes learning to defend themselves and hunt their food with guns. 

It takes the mindset of a Half-allachian to feel the intellectual autonomy required for the future of American politics, perhaps. We’re likely to soon have a senator from Appalachia, running as a business Republican. He openly identifies as “straight-ish” and shares the truth of his Appalachian childhood. Appalachia already is home to the most conservative Democrat senator as well. Their respective teams may seem them as outliers, but I see those bundles of contradictions as my peers, my people. I would strongly disagree with, over bourbon, sharing my finest meat over an open flame, under a starry Appalachian night. This kind of disagreement is how functioning sustainable civilizations work. 

When it comes to Rebranding Agnosticism, what does Appalachia have to do with it? 

We’re going to need this kind of independent thinking. We’re going to be the Emergents, standing beside people full of righteous indignation that we don’t honor their traditions supposedly handed down for millennia. We’re going to be ethical, moral, honest people who can be relied upon; and advocate for broad acceptance of the experiments individuals want to run, using their budget of conscious hours in life. We are going to build in the place it’s hard to build, but absolutely worth it. 

Finding my way to my heritage as an adult helps me understand the value of identity. This is true for a spiritual identity just as it is for a cultural identity.

Learning to hunt as an adult is tough. Ego aside, there is not an infrastructure for new adult hunters. Very few hunting schools exist, and many of those are places where animals are addicted to high sugar feed lots, and shot while they binge on sugar-laced corn from big box stores. Examples exist of how to do it right, but they sell out, sometimes in minutes, like Jesse Griffiths’ New School, in Austin.  Even fewer people bring new adult hunters into their long-established and interconnected hunting squads. Private family ranches sometimes extend a welcome, but usually as an after-thought, when all the extended family and friends have had their chance at a limited stock of animals. 

But learning to hunt is a rite of passage. 

Learning to hunt is a tradition handed down over nearly every human generation. With a few exceptions like practitioners of Jainism, our ancestors are hunters. Hunters without books, without maps, without satellite, without internet videos. They collaborated, trained one another. Today that still exists, but in rare form. A niche culture, being passed from father to son; cousin to cousin; a mom whose daughter isn’t interested, but whose neighbor’s daughter is, and goes along. 

Learning to hunt is half of learning what food really is; the other half, of course, being gardening. Very few things are ready to eat as they emerge. Some seasonal fruits, and a few animals like sushi-grade seafood. But generally, we must produce and process every bite we eat. 

But we’ve allowed ourselves to disassociate from the truth, from the means of production of our lives. Chicken eggs don’t come from stores, they come from chicken butts. 

This is a wonderful thing in some ways, and also an increasing tragedy.  It’s also a potential crisis, as the global food supply chain is much less stable than it seems. Knowing this is why I worked so hard to produce localized, sustainable feed sources for meat production, by farming crickets.

If our role, as emergents, is to foster as many experiments in spiritual discovery as we can — then we need to be sustainably self-sufficient. We cannot question the authority or functionality of institutions if we cannot take care of ourselves. We are deceiving our children and stealing the truth from them when we let them think food comes from stores. 

In Appalachia, there are some people keeping the old ways. My friend Robert is an energy consultant who works with big government buildings HVAC systems, who also spends dozens of days a year foraging, hunting small game, and keeping the Appalachian spirit alive in the backwoods with his boys. He’s not even genetically Appalachian, but I’m going to give him an honorary Half-allachian title based on keeping the tradition alive. In all honesty, I owe him eternal gratitude for teaching me my first lessons in hunting and fishing in Southern Appalachia. Neither my grandfather nor my father spent much time teaching me those skills. It is an adjustment I’m already making with my kids, returning them to their Appalachian heritage. 


Our food system is how we most directly relate to the universe around us — literally internalizing it. My heritage of hunting has provided a practical and fun way to live my spiritual identity.

Spiritual Alignment does not, to me, mean veganism. I know the horrors of the ag industry first hand, and the soy bean fields enabling everybody’s meat free diets are mostly nightmares of chemicals and caged animals moved about a warehouse by industrial robotics. 

I’m relatively new at hunting, or at least, relatively inexperienced. I’ve been tagging along and small game hunting for 20+ years, but solo big game hunting just the past couple years. 

Spiritual Alignment, to me, means following the clues of the way of the universe. There are clearly predators, prey, and switch hitters. Very few prey are not also predators. Elk, for example, will eat birds and small game when they can. The crickets that chickens in a pasture eat are themselves merciless predators, willing to cannibalize their family without a second thought. In the chain from cricket to chicken to human, it is only the human who considers the pain of its food. That is good, but the delusion that life eats anything but life has created a preposterous subculture, where it’s ok to create catastrophic environmental consequences to avoid animals being hurt. 

I have my college degree in Ethics, and I’m happy to discuss the ethics of pain in finding meat to eat. The long story short is that hunting—done right—is one minute of pain for the animal. Industrial agriculture—done wrong—is a full lifecycle of trapped misery, living in a cage every waking moment, until your imminent death. The number of minutes of suffering is a good metric, and one I would want applied to myself, in some thought experiment where I was the food. 

To be explicit: given the choices between being born in a prison cell and dying there, or going hiking for 50 years and getting shot one morning, I always choose the hike. 

As far as the pain caused to animals versus what people pretend are painless experiences for plants to be grown and harvested, I disagree, and science is on my side. Plants experience things, have social connections, and collaborate across species. Forests are living entities that experience pain, and perhaps, even some type of fear — or at least some type of warning system. Industrial soy beans are not healthy, happy plants living in a community. 

Taken to the logical end, Spiritual Alignment requires the Emergents to view even plants as an emergent experiment — just like people. They came from the stardust, and to it they will return. In that way, we can model what the best life for a plant, an animal, and a person would likely include. 

My ideal food system would be a distributed network of production systems, where every plant and animal is honored, and given the chance to “be itself.” For cows, this means the “one bad day” ranching mindset that is growing popularity. I’m proud to say I have family whose meat company uses this method of ranching. The animals are born in the pasture, stay with their mother through rearing, and are grass-fed and grass-finished. One (bad) morning, they are put in a truck and driven 20 minutes to a slaughterhouse, where they wait outside typically less than an hour before slaughter. The meat stays cold the entire time because it’s processed and vacuum packaged in the same building. It goes to a storage freezer, where it stays until it's shipped to you. The animal had one bad day. 

If we count minutes or hours of badness, these animals had 99% of their lives be good and normal. Do soy beans have that? How might they? What about mushrooms? If you’ve had an awakening where you perceived the waking eye of consciousness in all living things, can you keep pretending it’s ok to hurt soy to save chickens?

While cucumbers might not be conscious in a way that we would understand, we can surely connect with the fact that our food will literally be us, and we would rather not be made of imprisoned meat, or chemically tortured cucumbers, or pesticide-soaked soy beans. 
͏
“Some people are always grumbling because roses have thorns; I am thankful that thorns have roses.”
----
Alphonse Karr 
6—The Preacher’s Son

I’m a preacher’s kid, so to speak.

If you want to find—possibly in yourself—a tiny corner of the brutal side of our culture, embedded in a few simple assumptions — ask yourself what this biography makes you assume: 

“His dad was a preacher in a big local church, where many powerful politicians attended.”

Who do you assume that person, the kid, will be as an adult? 

Is it a person at peace with the world? Or is it more likely a drug addict? 

Is it a person of transcendent joy, or a person of neurotic anxiety? 

My personal experience, as a kid who was very similar to that kid, is that most everybody knows that the “preacher’s kid” will be wild, troublesome, and possibly quarrelsome. Mothers don’t want daughters to date preacher’s sons, for the most part. 

Why would it be that, this kid who should have the most community, the most love, the most spiritual depth — is instead the shoemaker’s child running around barefoot? 

I wonder if proposing the Emergent movement is doing the same to my kids, somehow. I have carefully considered this. I want to tell you all now that if my kids think being an Emergent is stupid, that’s fine with me. It is yet another view to emerge. That’s the extreme case, though. 

This book is, in part, for the people I envision my kids to be when they’re 28 years old. So, it’s possible they will have moved on. Maybe aliens teach us an irrefutable spiritual truth, and all this is lost to the cosmos. In that case, or any case—I’m not going to make my personal income on, or at least now exclusively on, this movement. I am gearing up to launch my next venture backed startup, and finishing this book beforehand is part of my marketing strategy. 

I think declaring myself an Emergent Minister and hosting events where people donate or pay me to entertain, inspire, heal, and connect them — not my jam. I like building software, and having social freedom. I don’t care to be famous on social media, any more than I care to be famous amongst a bunch of trees in a forest. We’re all one thing.

I will be excited for my kids to tell me what they think. My parents had a Far Side cartoon on the fridge that described a rebellious young calf, Matthew, who wore a leather jacket for shock value. Some punk rock part of my heart wants one of my kids to find a way to rebel against the Emergent movement. I’m not certain how that would work, but it would have to be 100% certainty in some spiritual truth, I suppose. May I be blessed with a kid who wears a t-shirt defying physics saying “WE ARE NOT ALL ONE THING.” Cheers, kid. 

My hot take on why preacher’s kids have the identity they so often do is this: children can’t handle the dissonance between knowing their father is just a dude, and having everyone around them behave like their father has a special relationship with the most powerful thing in existence. 

Imagine hearing someone snore, watch them spill coffee and curse like a sailor, fart in the car, then walk up on a stage and be the arbiter of righteousness. 

Time is love. Especially for people — and barbecue. 

My parents always used to say, “Remember who you are.” when I left the house. A Midwestern guilt hack meant to remind me of role in community, values, etc. It was a beautiful testament to their faith and fastidious commitment to living their values. When I moved to Venice Beach the first time, I was delighted to find a muralist—Art By Chase—who sketches this phrase across West LA. 

The rebellion of my childhood was that I knew who I was, and it wasn’t who they meant.


Call me psychedelic Billy Graham. (JOKING!)

I once had a job where I was the sound technician for the amphitheater at a little valley of paradise, nestled beneath the tallest mountain on the East Coast. Mount Mitchell is over 6,684 feet (2.04 km) tall; so big by regional averages it has its own weather systems. I took a peak at it 2 minutes ago from the small orchard near where I’m writing today in Southern Appalachia. 

The Cherokee name for it is Attakulla, and where I’m standing is on a bent tree trail. The Cherokee would bend tree limbs with braces to form arrows. They point to water, to hunting spots, to lookouts, to shelter. They would follow them when they migrated, hunted, and generally tooled around, I would guess. It’s easy to imagine this history because it was fairly recently that the Cherokee still held ground in these mountains. If you’re not familiar with the story, the Tsalagiyi Detsadanilvgi—the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians—they were the people that stayed despite the Trail of Tears that marched their tribe and families to Oklahoma. These brave and steadfast people knew the mountains so well, they could hardly be flushed from them. 

So, there I sit, a white dude who grew up mostly in Florida, at a retreat center that’s part of a college that includes a big amphitheater. I’m in Western North Carolina. I’m putting a microphone on none other than the Rev. Dr. Billy Graham. 

Like the Cherokee, Rev. Dr. Graham understood the benefits of having a hideout in these mountains. To this day, the institute he founded holds a massive chunk of land — a whole “bowl” in mountain terminology—of the mountains in the southern slope of Mt. Mitchell. It’s called The Cove. But Rev. Dr. Graham did not live there, he graced the mountains at another nearby college, where I was working for the summer as a sound technician. In part because of that, he became, to some small extent, the doting patrician gracing the grounds of this Presbyterian college, not far from the Bible College (as I understand it) he himself founded. In between lies another Presbyterian College called Warren Wilson College, a farm school that I attended. The last famous college that rested in this valley was Black Mountain College, founded by the likes of Ginsberg, Kerouac, Fuller, and other beat luminaries. Not only did all of these folks collide in the meme space of America during their time in the limelight, they shared gas stations during their summer retreats to the mountains. The stories go that these forces aligned as sympathizers to the Civil Rights Movement, and that Rev. Dr. King, Jr. himself hid in these mountains. I once visited a homestead where he supposedly hid out. While I have no idea if that’s true, I can attest that the partly Cherokee family who lives up that mountain does, indeed, raise wolf-hybrid dogs that will keep you in the car until the hosts come out, and generally keep you puckered up and avoiding all curse words in this Baptist home when you’re up there. Their pet wolf might get offended. 

And here in these mountains, I sat with a wireless microphone, getting ready to run out to the soundboard and do a sound check. No wolf dogs or Cherokee fireside stories. Rev. Dr. Graham was a quiet older guy who smiled a lot. 

I knew his history very well, and I was downright starstruck when I first met him. But that was unnecessary. He was kind, and even avuncular. He made a couple jokes during a mic check, and made a goofy sound like he was stretching out his talking muscles. He smiled awkwardly as I reached down to him, seated, and had to tuck a mic under his jacket. I didn’t just meet the man, I clipped mic battery in his pants. 

At this distance—zero inches—you do get a different sense of a person. Not just their humanity, but their smell. Not just their fame, but their utter normalcy. And often you get a sense of their actual character. It’s very difficult to play a character on TV for a lifetime, but people do. 

The man I met was more connected to these mountains than the man on TV. The man I met would have eaten a fried squirrel and gravy and grits bowl with me for breakfast, I would guess. He was more Appalachian than the man on TV. He was more Appalachian than me. I don’t know this, and I intentionally haven’t researched it as I write this, but it wouldn’t surprise me if he was a talented hunter. We now know, according to multiple public sources, that people in his tribe were using psychedelics not to abandon their religion but to strengthen it. Psilocybin containing mushrooms grow all over the place in this part of the country, so access is unquestionable. Whether they did or not doesn’t matter to me, except that it’s a clue in the big puzzle of spiritual truth. 

What does matter to me is that I disagreed with Rev. Dr. Graham on many, if not most, points about faith and culture, but respected the man tremendously. I respect him for speaking his values. I respect him for putting spiritual life and spiritual consideration on the front lines of politics and culture. I respect him for honoring the importance of the Civil Rights Movement. And I respect him for being kind to me and making me laugh. 

Whatever we are to young people in our lives, those of us who are focusing mental energy on our spiritual selves ought to remember that no amount of exposure to criticism, to the media, to celebrities, to politicians, nor to the best and worst of the human spirit — no amount of that life experience gives us license to be anything but loving and playful with the young people around us, as best we can. If Rev. Dr. Billy Graham, in his twilight, can make a kid working a soundboard have a better day, surely I can today, too. 
͏
Recently, on the most popular podcast in the world, one of the world’s leading mycologists explained that members of the inner circle of Rev. Dr. Billy Graham used psilocybin mushrooms to strengthen their relationship to God. 
7—Killing a Billion Things

Killing any living thing at an industrial scale teaches you a lot about yourself — even if they’re insects.

I used to think we were becoming industrio-sapiens. That industry and human progress aligned. I had some hard lessons to learn about how our food systems are based on not just death, but a lot of wasted death, a lot of death by suffering. I’m going to explain how it’s both critical that we learn to farm billions more living things—and kill them—and how we need to do our best to honor how animals emerge from the stardust. Down to the insects we use to feed the chickens we eat. I have killed—or more accurately ordered the killing—of at least a billion things. Mostly by text messages saying “reviewed slaughter plan please proceed” or something like that. Today, I believe those crickets were fine to be slaughtered for animal feed; and that they needed to live a better life than in the robots I built for them. They deserved to live very close to how they emerged from the stardust, as all beings do.

While’s too far afield for this book, I believe someday we’ll see large-scale outdoor insect harvest amplified by breeding and processing facilities. These futuristic farm models could reduce water use, energy use, and carbon emissions all by 90% or more. People working in insect agriculture are ethical professionals, and I hope nothing I share about my experience is misconstrued to criticize what they’re working on now. 

Had we blended our facility with outdoor access for the insects—somehow—the concentration of chemicals that hurt me so much would likely have never done so much damage. It’s an irony I try not to dwell on. It’s a constant reminder that acting in alignment with my spiritual beliefs today will pay real-world dividends in the future; acting out of alignment will have real-world costs and liabilities. 

I used to think that we should make animal suffering go lower on the scale of consciousness. My career in insect farming was predicated on the notion that industrially produced insects barely understood what was happening in their lives, and so it didn’t much matter what happened to them. 

There is a theory that insects are like state machines, a simple type of machine that basically looks to see if it is in a breeding situation, and if not, tries to eat what’s in front of it. That may be basically true at an individual insect level, but as colonies and so-called superorganisms, they are complex members of the ecosystem. As recently the day I’m editing this book in 2022, new research is coming out suggesting data supporting a complex set of pain types that many types of insects can experience. 

When you believe that you are moving the needle on the scale of morality by exploiting a low-function living thing to improve conditions for a higher-functioning living thing like farm animals and the people who eat them, you are capable of doing morally shocking things. I have built, financed, and basked in days of startup-fame of building a system to kill a billion crickets. If not many more. In the long arch of human history, the people responsible for the most deaths of things with nervous systems are all recent, and all kill insects. While I’m a lowly gangster compared to the Genghis Khan of industrial insecticide, what I did was up close and personal. It was insect captivity, on the scale of hundreds of millions. 

To be clear, I still think those insects experienced much less pain than, for example, a pig in a bulk swine facility, living in a concrete box until it’s killed. These insects had teams of people working to design their feed just as they liked it, and lived in a predator-free paradise full of breeding materials. But they never saw the light of day, and lived in a tiny cage from birth till death. A billion or more, at my hands. 

Shit was killing me.

It was the concentration of cricket shit that was killing me. It’s still not clear exactly what it was, but there appears to be some type of chemical (chitin?) that concentrates in their manure, and aerosolizes easily when bulk processed. 

Every early-stage startup CEO is a bit full of shit. For me, it was killing me.

The insects struck back. 

The worst was when we slaughtered. We used CO2, and would kill millions at a time. One time I coughed up blood in my hazmat-style suit and mask, and the smell was so acrid I couldn’t breathe back in without gagging more. As the crickets fell to bulk gassing, I raced out of the facility, through multiple air chambers and things that stopping me from getting air. I fell to my knees, gasping for air, as inside, my team killed millions of things by choking them of air. 

I can barely describe the pain and fear I felt at that moment. It is a trauma I have continued to reconcile. The pain is not something I’ve even much discussed with my wife, or with therapists. Imagine taking a bong hit of fiberglass, your lungs on fire with a million small lacerations. 


We were going to train robots to do the same work by 1000x multiple. 

I have designed the frameworks for machine learning programs—“AI” basically—to raise, harvest, and slaughter animals by the billions. When it came to title this book, the right title emerged when it addressed not just our relationship with religion, but AI’s relationship with life and death. 

I believed then that this was worth the sacrifice to improve conditions for chickens, and for humans. I still believe in industrial agriculture, and think it’s a good idea to mass produce insects. But it needs to be done with consideration that they, too, have emerged from the stardust, especially when training an AI how to value life in its many forms.


The insects almost killed me, as I was killing them.

Humans can be very slow and stupid. I am a human. 

I didn’t go home that day and realize the moral hazard in which I was trapped. I went home and showered and slept. I went back to work the next day, although I started to cry on my way to work every day. In self-pity, I would tell myself that anybody going to get poisoned for their job that day would cry a little, and it was ok. 

It took years for me to wrap my head around how much all of this bothered me. It took even longer to figure out what I thought was better. 

When I look at the Universe, it seems clear we live with plenty of space from other planets. It’s hard to conceive of a war for solar energy, even extrapolating our greatest technological achievements. 

When I look at animals who get to live the lives they were born—even destined—to live, it doesn’t bother me to hunt them. I can see deer out the window where I’m writing in Montana, and it makes me feel good to know we are feeding our children meat my brother-in-law harvested from these animals. We are one among many predators in this valley, and his expert marksmanship is—by minutes, if not hours—the fastest and least painful death in this valley. 

As often pointed out by seasoned hunters, a grizzly bear will eat a deer’s back end while the front is still alive and bleating for help. It has no mercy to kill it and end its suffering. In a crisis moment with no bullets and no tools, I have killed a baby deer attacked by dogs with a kitchen knife here in Montana to put it out of its misery. That is a human instinct: to shorten the minutes of suffering when the life is clearly already lost. That is good and moral, and spiritually aligned. 

When we hunt and fish in spiritually aligned ways, we honor each moment, and teach children that they owe their food a good life, now that it is part of them. When we garden in spiritually aligned ways, we don’t poison plants to be more productive. We recognize them as social beings and plant accordingly. 

It doesn’t seem like the designs of nature create hyper-concentrations of life very often. When it does, they are often superorganisms and still move freely as that. A school of tiny fish might contain a million members, but the school as an entity isn’t trapped in a cubic section of the ocean. Condensing life seems to create the most problems, functionally and morally. 

What does this mean for school design? 

What about prisons? 

What about retirement homes? 

All of these questions—and many more—led me down the path to reading spiritual texts of all type the past few years. As I reconcile my beliefs about the nature of life, the universe, and everything, I find food to be a powerful anchor that forces me to think about my role in the universe. We eat meat from ranchers we personally know, and that I hunt as a fledgling adult-onset hunter. 

As we look at how Emergent lifestyle can be implemented in a functional way, I don’t have great answers on food systems. Gardening, ranching, hunting, fishing, foraging — these are all great, but literally impossible to use to feed everyone. Either people have to radically redistribute to the country and out of cities, or we have to farm food. Frankly, even if people try to farm their own, the nature of drought, blight, and disease would make it, so neighbors would suffer while distant lands prosper year to year, just as it was in the ancient days in wars over grain and livestock.

In this way, food systems are a great example of the limits of how far Emergent thinking can go right now. We can honor our individual food sources, and if we’re lucky, be selective about them. But our philosophy of gratitude and desire to provide plants and animals the conditions that allow them to live as they naturally emerge will likely never be fully implemented across all agriculture. It’s more likely that Catholicism will become the exclusive world religion. Progress in applying Emergent thinking to agriculture will be slow, but that doesn’t make it less important. 

Many other things can go fast, though, including sweet t-shirts that say WE ARE ALL ONE THING. My kids already wear them.


͏
“He who is cruel to animals becomes hard also in his dealings with men. We can judge the heart of a man by his treatment of animals.”
----
Immanuel Kant
8—Bar Huntin’

Let’s sit for a minute and have a story.

As I’ve grown older, I’ve come to take much more pride in being half Appalachian. The American tradition is marked and told, in part, by Appalachian folklore, music, and history. Bear hunting is an essential part of that history, a skill learned from indigenous people who came before the Appalachian settlers. (As a reminder, you would seldom find a plantation or large slave holding in much of Appalachia, and in Southern Appalachia, the only indigenous people who escaped the Trail of Tears remained and remains today. It was and is different.) 
 
In this short story, I hope to show you the new south, where family values mean something new, and include a very different cast of characters. You might be surprised to learn who likes to hunt these days, and someday you might find yourself having fun hunting or camping while a loved one hunts. At the end of the day—and the end of life—what matters is how we spent our time. This story is first and foremost a reflection of how I want to spend time with my family, with a lot of making fun of the part of myself who wants to be a lecturing dad who is also cool at the same time. 

I’ve never shot a bear to kill it, but I was out bear hunting in Daniel Boone Bear Sanctuary at the end of 2022, and I have shot a bear with a rubber bullet to get it away from my family. Someday I’ll proudly feed my family that meat, and we will use that energy to live in beautiful and spiritually rich ways to honor that great beast. 


The children sang in the back seat. “We’re going on a bear hunt, goin’ on a bear hunt… Gonna catch-a big one, gonna catch-a big one…” in an up-down sing-song rhythm that stopped every few seconds for giggles. 

They knew a bear would die. They knew they would eat it. 

What could be misunderstood as a perversion of death worship is, in fact, one of the ways our minds reconcile our history as meat eaters. Laughing about the hunt, and sharing in communal excitement for it is not wrong. It is right. I was taking the children to harvest meat. I had outlawed processed meat in our house, making the kids eat vegan in public. We live in Texas. My kids are tough in a boy named Sue kind of way. The funny thing is they hunt harder than the kids who make fun of them. 

As best we can tell, I’m fifth generation Appalachian. My children, then, are sixth, if diluted quite a bit by marriage to Westerners and Midwesterners. My name is Mitchell. Named after the big mountain. Tallest East of the Mississippi. I’m writing this letter not just to my son, but to his buddies and anybody else who wants to read it on social media. 

What I want you do know is bear huntin is better than bar huntin. The bigger your ratio of woods to drinks in life, the more you win life. It’s just fine to have a good time, but celebrate your hunt, your harvest, your forage, your fish. Don’t spend the day drinking. And be careful who you find when you go huntin for friends in bars.

If you heard my great granddaddy say it, you wouldn’t know what the hell he was talking about. ‘Bar huntin is better than bar huntin.’ That’s how he’d say it. Bears not bars, to translate for ya.

So anyways we get back to it. The kids are singing and I think that’s great. We see bear signs, but no sign so far. Hang your food signs. We don’t see the people we’re supposed to meet. 

I make a joke to the kids that who we are supposed to “meet” could be “meat” for the bear we’re trying to hunt. Imminent death jokes go zero yards down the field with my wife, she calls a foul, I give up possession of the dialog. She asks me to go over safety—again—for when I’m away from camp. 

This is where it matters what you’ve taught your kids. See my wife doesn’t like guns much, but my daughter does just fine. Problem is the kid’s only 11, and too young to be by herself or handle a bear scare. So I’ve arranged a complicated system of camping coordination across three families, wherein one of the partners staying behind to hunt is a dude who loves to hunt. His wife loves to hunt, too, is the thing, and he lost the coin toss. She’s coming with us. He’s sidearm sittin the campsite, fire roasting hot dogs and smores. 

So anyways we get back to the story where we’re at camp and only one other family is there. Our walkie-talkie radios work just fine, but the third family aren’t on those. No cell phones. No worries. They probably stopped at a burger joint to load up a big meal before a long camping trip. 

We set about making a hunt plan. Those of us cleaning firearms and bows and arrows don’t drink until all our kit is locked up proper. This is a rule me and my friend are real particular about. Plus you gotta get up before dawn if you’re coming huntin. No hangover fussin does any good then. 

Sidearm Steve, who is sitting the camp the next day, decides to drive around to see if our other friends got a campsite somewhere, or a flat tire, or some other thing that happens out in the woods like a rock slide scaring a family of raccoons up to a dumpster they push out and knock over and go rollin around in getting that smell everywhere such as they attract the vultures but that clues off the bears so you’re just sitting there thinking damnit Robert, damnit Doug, why am I out here stuck behind this trash trap cause they was the guys that said to come here. Anyways who knows. 

So it’s good night time. 

//

Waking up nice and early as I did because I didn’t drink too much the night before, as a good hunter does, son, I was ready to go. We didn’t have dogs but other people must have because you could hear them go crazy. Well good luck to us huntin next to dogs when we don’t have dogs. Fine morning for a rabbit hunt. Those bears are running from dogs. But you never know. 

The other party still hadn’t shown up and we had a debate about huntin still, but figured it was fine. I left out with the Tiffany, a hunter from Atlanta whose family has lived of land nearby for generation after generation of hunter and angler. The first generation to take that land was amongst the bravest people I’ve ever heard about. 

People see you with a woman from Atlanta out in the woods huntin bears and your fat ass walking beside her and they wonder if I’m her huntin guide cause she’s some super rich celebrity or something? I’m glad to say no that’s just a fellow hunter. Morons assume it’s her first time and give her advice, like no you go down this good trail type thing. If you want to make assumptions about people’s hunting skills and point them towards easy shots rather than ask hey how many years you been huntin, then you know what more power to you.

So we set out real quite of course, but still chatting. The kids and camp make so much noise and smell the first mile we’re free and clear to yammer it up. She married a redneck like me, so she knows just how to strike up conversations by asking like what kind of gear I like better one or the other type thing. She thinks mechanical broadhead arrow tips are good and I don’t like them, that’s just what her dad likes, I think. That’s hours of chatting right there you know. 

We can’t hear the kids any more so we have to shut up. Fortunately, we can see them the way this ridge is. Every once and a while I look at them in binoculars. We keep wondering where the other crew is. 

Tiff spots a bear during a break we take to look through binos, and it’s one we want to hunt. It’s her spot, her bear. But we gotta get there. It’s a long hike to be in shooting range. 

We move as fast as we can move quietly, which is to say not very fast. We get to whispering about old times and how much easier this hunt would be on our knees when we were younger. Turns out she was a bartender. I make jokes about bars and “bars”—redneck for bears. She kinda laughs. She quit because it was sad. Good money, sad flirting, very sad people. 

We talked about my college life on a farm school. Truth is we didn’t need a bar to drink too damn much. We had kegs on four wheelers. 

We shut up again, and post up.  That bar is comin our way. 

We figure a system where I will spot and guard. I’ve got a rifle and a bear tag, so if something moves going the other way away from her approach I might just take a shot with my rifle. But Tiff is determined she’s going to arrow hunt it. Who am I to debate. She has a sidearm but it’s dangerous as hell what she’s doing. I get up to a position where I can see where she’s going sit watch. 

She gets her fancy mechanical arrow fancy thing ready, and gets nock to string. A stand of trees and Godsent wind keeps us able to do all this stuff, and the weather is nice enough, enough rain to keep smells down and cover sound, but low winds. She starts to move in. I got my binos zoomed way out and can see the whole scene here. To my surprise my phone works up here damnit but good my wife says they’re fine and bunch of bear emojis. I smashed the thumbs up and move on. 

Tiff has about an hour of slow moving before she’s anywhere close, but I promise myself I’m going to stay focused. Had I been a young dumb idiot man with a hangover from drinkin too much I might have napped off at what you will see was an important time coming up. 

So she’s in range and as best I can tell that thing is still there. What a beast. I think about a full freezer. I think about her happiness. I think oh shit what if something bad happens wish the third person were here. Where are they? 

So she’s close now and she doesn’t care if I’m there, if the world disappears. I can see her stalking and she’s on it. She is in perfect position. She waits a good half hour. I assume the way she is she knows its there. I can’t see it. 

But then it pops out and damn she just nails it. Best damn shot you ever seen. It’s a big beast so she draws and puts another in it, damn near Robin Hood style. When he was down we saw she was just about 3 inches off her first shot. It appears that it’s all fine, but then right there is another bear. Must have been a mating thing. Who knows. But another damn bear. 

I can’t just aim and shoot because Tiffany is still close to the damn bear. She drops her arrow and puts a sidearm in her left hand, but signals at me with her right. The other bear is looking and the first bear is still kind of dying but definitely dying. Tiff fires her sidearm straight into it’s spine on a good clean shot and it’s done. The bang scares the other one off. Two bears, one stone, so to speak. I wait a good while scanning like a dang sniper, all sweatin and nervous. She waves to me to come down. I get my gun safe and head on down. 

We get to work making a plan. We’re supposed to have a third who can get an ATV up to us. We don’t. Or at least we think we don’t. 

//

Ralph was Tiff’s cousin by marriage. He was German and his real name vaguely sounded like Ralph. Where was Ralph when we needed him. Had he been irresponsible and drank too much? I wonder. 

So it turns out he hadn’t. He was being the best cousin of all time. He had got to the campsite first, it turns out. He saw this bear, and saw it up on the other ridge. So he drove around for a good hour to the other side and started walking up  the ridge. He saw the bear again and made all kinds of noise. Bear went back to our planned hunting spot. 

Well Ralph figured he had two choices: go hunt with us while that bear came over here; or be a real true blue friend and cousin husband and stay there keeping the bear pushed over by us. Ralph negotiated a deal with his wife that they could stay for one night only. As it turned out, they had given up on this mission and were right then pitching a tent with my wife and Sidearm Steve, Tiffany’s husband. 

Everybody heard the sidearm shot and worried. We knew this would be the case, so I went back up to text the good news where I had reception up the hill. I guess Steve wanted to go get it with the ATV, but Ralph also did. The wives had enough of their fussing and told them to both ride the ATV and just shut up. Steve would hike back with Tiffany while Ralph drove the ATV. 

We got the bear field dressed and brought him down the mountain ATV style. That night we ate bear heart and tenderloin fried in bear grease. We talked about that bear’s life. We talked about why we hunt the old men, who have lived their lives and don’t contribute as much no more. How old boars get dangerous eventually, picking off a lot of cubs in some cases. We talk about the mistake of humans taking out all the predators that once would have challenged these bold and mysterious animals. 

On this rare occasion, I smoke tobacco in front of my children. I smoke tobacco grown on my family’s land and I smoke it raw, wrapped in loose leaf papers. We talk about the power of tobacco in these mountains, and the dangers of using it any more than very rarely. 

And after all this lecturing about avoiding the bars and drinking too much, after all the work, and the feast, and the smoke, and the stories — I pour my near adult children small sips of bourbon whiskey to share with me. 

Tiffany raises her glass for us all and says “Thank you, thank you, thank you dear bear. You will feed our families. We will be bold and beautiful with that energy, that life force — just like you. Cheers.”
͏
The chicken you buy at drive-throughs never saw the sun. 
The doves I hunt, for example, live exactly the life they emerged to live, until the moment the moment they die quickly.
9—I see talking space monkeys.

We are less distant from every other living thing than we tend to think. That perspective is beautiful, and sometimes funny.

If you have used those printed photos where you relax your gaze and a 3D image pops out, you know the idea of consciously adjusting your perspective.

Now imagine another, where you shift the associations of your mindset. You are going to imagine a very long time as the deep backstory of everything and everyone around you. The time is one million years. To every product apply a backstory of one million years. 

Let’s pretend you’re sitting in a busy airport, and you apply one million years backwards to everything around you, making some basic assumptions. 

The wooden bench you’re sitting on was, pretty recently, a tree. Before that, it was soil. Before that, perhaps a mushroom. Going even past one million years, it was once a dinosaur poop; before that, a berry; and so on. 

The electricity lighting the signs around you was maybe coal, or a nuclear rod. The glass in the windows was sand.

Now — the person across from you. What were they? 

For about a third of the last million years, the genetic code making up the physical being—and its consciousness—that sit in front of you, was mostly something like a monkey. It was variations of monkeys, until the one that sits before you. 

Just like that 3D image that pops out when you change perspective, a world full of talking monkeys who can fly on boats in the sky appears. 

This is my default perspective, one I have to work to not see. I see talking monkeys. If I let my mind wander, especially in large public places, I see talking monkeys. Things like alcohol, live music, great food, great conversation — these all help me stay in the consciousness realm, not seeing talking monkeys. My wife can tell when I’m stuck in that view because I get weirded out by a lot of common stuff. Watching a bride and groom at a wedding smash cake into each other’s faces: my wife and everyone else is feeling jubilant release from convention, and I’m watching chimps food fight. 

Certainly staring in the mirror I see a talking monkey from time to time, and I struggle with looking at candid photos of myself not just because I should do more sit-ups, but also because I sometimes see a talking monkey.
 
There’s nothing wrong with the truth, but it is a deeply undermining perspective a lot of the time. For example, when you forget you have a water bottle in your backpack at the TSA line, you need to respectfully work with the officer of the law who can arrest you, not laugh at monkeys making institutions. When you’re on a third date, watching that person eat a banana on a break during a hike together — the talking monkey lens is not helpful, not sexy. 

When you’re watching your three-year-old sit on the kitchen counter eat a banana, that perspective is adorable and endearing. 

All these talking monkeys have taught me a thing or two. The first is that internet-connected devices have already changed our species. We are monkeys whose consciousness can experience perception from infinite angles now. From deep space telescopes to AI that can draw exactly what you ask of it—thus creating a possibly infinite number of possible outcomes—our perspective is no longer limited to what we can first-hand experience. Virtual reality and augmented reality will soon make it so we can feel as though we are in other places, other people, or in other times. 

Humans and technology are becoming co-emergent as much as we are becoming co-evolved. That is to say: we are soon to be partners in progress, not masters and slaves. 

The second thing seeing talking monkeys has taught me is this: AI sees talking monkeys, like me. Later in the book, I propose an AI to discover spiritual truth called DAITY.

Whatever we do, we’re just talking monkeys on a space rock. It’s good reason to protect consciousness as a gift bigger than ourselves, and to honor the expanse of the mysteries before us, rather than to try to persuade ourselves and those around us that we already understand it all. 

This has a big impact on how I see schools. We need schools for talking monkeys with AI and rockets, and Emergent spiritual identities. ASAP.

Dad energy.

Schools are complex beasts. Students experience all sorts of versions of a thing we wrap up in the notion of “school.” My niece and nephew attend a public elementary school with 5 students; my daughter, until recently, attended a public elementary school with 500 students. I attended a public school with 1,500 students. It’s wild to me that a business with 5 employees lives in a different realm than a business with 1,500 employees — but a school with 5 students is operated by the same people and generally the same way as one with 1,500 students. As class sizes grow and budgets strain, are parents supposed to pretend that increasing a class size from an already staggering 20–25 students per teacher to upwards of 30–40 students per teacher has no impact? Are we supposed to pretend it's the same thing as when we were kids? 

How I see the big problem in schools today can be more clearly seen in another area of life: the “shrinkflation” trend. It’s the combination of inflation and ever-decreasing product sizes. Brands and corporations worldwide are shrinking product sizes and selling them as the same product with the same packaging. Your yogurt cup may have lost an ounce — check it. It’s the same form factor, same label, everything — but smaller. Your duct tape is less tape per roll, almost certainly. Check the size of the cardboard in the center. It’s happened to thousands of products and people on social media, as well as academic researchers, are following it. It’s labeled the same, but it’s not. These brands count on the fact that it can be socially annoying to point it out to your friends and family because typically there is no alternative, or you already bought it and didn’t notice. It’s a careful strategy that has been a response to COVID problems, as well as, perhaps in some noble cases, an attempt to shrink American waistlines. Usually, it’s the same price, or now, more. That’s the difficulty. Less product and less quality, but the same or higher price. Shrink-flation.

In schools around the world, we’ve got something like shrinkflation, in the nature and experience of what’s taught and how. Teachers rely on screens and tablets hours and hours a day. Some schools are up to 50% screen time. The problems that arise from screen time are well documented, and most parents attempting to raise healthy kids set limits on the screen time at home. But it’s not the case in schools, where the pressure is to let kids check out and sit silently. In the schools, like my local schools, where kids are sitting on the floor in over packed classrooms watching screens half the day, many teachers are at their wit’s end and simply resorting to this with no other options. Arts programs, exercise programs, and nearly everything but sitting in class is losing time. Headphones on screen time during school is growing rampantly. 

All this adds up to a simple truth: we’re being given less, labeled as the same. 

Which kind of idiot am I? (fictional)

They told me they built a building for my kids to spend their day in. They took little bits of everybody’s money, and built a building for all the kids. It’s free. All you have to do is turn over your kid to the couple rules the people who built The Building need the kids—and you—to follow. 

The way they do it is they put all the kids in there, then show them the same pictures and say the same words to them, then it gets very quiet, and the kids have to compete with one another. Sometimes they compete for The Adults’ satisfaction by answering questions based on what The Adults said. The winners often get less work and less stress, as well as more freedom. Often the winners get prizes and higher social status. The loser kids have to stay and work more. Losers.

One thing I find strange about The Building is the kids are supposed to sit still. My kids don’t like sitting still. The Adults say it’s good for the kids to sit still because it makes it much easier on The Adults, who built The Building. The Adults don’t have to sit still. They can stand, and talk, and move as they please. They are the alpha alphas. 

It doesn’t matter what the weather is, all of the time showing pictures to kids and talking at them is inside. It’s easier that way. The kids get talked to by people in screens a lot, and the sun causes a glare that makes it hard for the kids to stare at the screen for long periods of time. Sometimes the kids plug into headphones which makes them extra quiet, which is a nice time for The Adults. 

The food The Building serves the kids is made mostly in the Midwest, but sometimes in China and Brazil. It comes in high density plastic bags and with the generic soy mush they use, you can trick the kids into believing it’s anything. “Chicken” nuggets. “Hamburgers” etc. Kids will believe just about anything is food if you put sugar in it. There is a garden at The Building. The kids work it. They can eat from it if their parents pay extra on the weekends. 

The kids see a single adult for about 9 months at a time because it’s much easier to control children if they form their social pack structures within The Building. When they form their own self-selected packs, they regulate their own social order. As long as The Adults make allies with the socially powerful alpha kids, they can regulate the whole pack. Typically, they do this through concessions to allow the alphas to lead sports teams, get special recognition, amplify their own message, or exact other benefits as simple as having The Adults mess with them less when it comes to discipline. When the alphas have powerfully connected parents, or especially parents who are friends with The Adults outside of The Building, The Adults in The Building usually do their best to avoid both messing with the alphas and disciplining them.

If a kid who isn’t protected by social standards or popular or rich parents—or worse has parents who question The Adults—the kid often receives some type of discipline, especially if they are unable to sit still or otherwise comply. This starts with social ramifications, embarrassment, call-outs, and public discipline like having your name written in a public space to shame you. If this doesn’t work, the children are put in training prisons. These often take the shape of a trailer parked outside the building, where a stern The Adult will make them regret what they did by taking fun out of their lives. This teaches children that their community is there for them as long as they follow the rules that The Adults set out, and small dark boxes await them if they don’t.

The Adults often sincerely care about the children. Most of them are there as a second job, or hobby. A good many of them just love the social identity of being The Adult, and frankly, might not be alphas in the white collar or even blue-collar world, but certainly are among children. It used to be that to be a The Adult you had to have a college degree in it, but now the job is basically available to anybody whose criminal record isn’t too much of a problem. Strangely, The Adults get paid very little, which entitles them to get very upset when parents question them. If you want to reward a Adult, you can slip them cash and they love it, but The Building has a pretty tight fist about The Adults making money on the side, so hush hush. If the parents understood how hard it was to create environments where children constantly compete for one another to be the most compliant, have the best memory for rote facts, and be the alpha in social groups — those parents would understand it’s a constant struggle. These kids just want to play, and being The Adult is such hard work you really should assume you won’t get it — is what they say. Unless you have a high school degree, in which case you can be a The Adult tomorrow. But until you sign on to The Building — no questioning! You just don’t understand. 

Of course, The Adults understand that The Building can seem intense for a four-year-old. The Adults try not to mention the fact that, once you accept their help, if you stop accepting their help for more than 10 days for your child, the police will come and put you in jail, and a judge may further punish you and take your children away. This is what’s best for the institution of The Building and everyone understands that. You can’t have The Building for all children if you don’t make it consistent. 

The Building wasn’t built to be fair. It wasn’t built to listen to parents. The Building was meant to make a society with generally the same rules. The building is paid for by everyone. The design of The Building must suit everyone. If you let an individual student or family dictate their own terms, there will be no The Building left. Obviously, you can see that. From ages 4 to 18, all children need to be in The Building for at least two third’s of the time they have in life. That can be nearly 20,000 hours that children are in The Building, sitting still. 

While there is hard science to prove that The Building often builds up carbon dioxide, which can make kids sick and stupid, that’s not the problem of The Building. Those 20,000 hours are designed to make kids compete with one another to be the smartest and most popular. They are not about their bodies. The children can choose to move during the allocated 30-60 minutes each week, and The Building offers the ability for them to walk the fence line of the property several times a week, adding up to nearly an hour a day of walking the fence line sometimes. This is a wonderful chance for the children to see the fence and understand the role of fences. 

The Building hasn’t changed since the Internet arrived. Nor will it. They do, however, post photos of the building and the students on the Internet for all to see. Sometimes The Building isn’t safe, but if a parent tries to rush into The Building when, for example, a bear is running class to class mauling students, that parent can legally get shot by The Building Police. The Building handles its own problems. That bear is not a challenge you would understand as a parent, so to keep you from hurting yourself or the bear, you would have to be stopped from fighting the bear as it stands outside your kid’s class. Don’t worry about it. If you look, The Building has never had a criminal or sexual assault incident — in the past 50 years! The Building obviously knows how to make that rate zero, and could teach the rest of the world something. 

I sit here and I wonder about all this stuff, but when I ask The Adults, they tell me I just don’t understand how The Building has to work. They put me in my place and boy do they know how to make it clear when you score low on a test of life. 

I just don’t get The Building. What kind of idiot am I? Or should it be which kind of idiot am I? Never learned that in school. 

Long live The Building. 
Long live the Queen. 

Now what?

I love the idea of public education. I love it so much I started my career not building software, like I do now, but working for a lobby called The Children’s Defense Fund. The CDF has a 50+ year track record of lobbying for children’s issues. The idea is that children can’t hire a lobbyist, so the CDF will lobby for them. I held this passion because my parents are both educators. My dad was a church educator, who studied at Princeton Seminary; my mom a 44-year public school teacher, and active in local and state politics regarding curriculum, school funding, and nearly every issue related to public schools. I attended a well-funded and beautiful public high school, where we mostly ate at shaded outdoor lunch tables, surrounded by lush and well-kept gardens. 

I want my kids to be very well-educated. I push my daughter to learn the basics of quantum versus Newtonian physics, using candy as a bribe to memorize things. I make my little son sit still in the forest to observe the smallest of things moving. We have hundreds and hundreds of books, with bookshelves in every living space and bedroom in our home, and the big one in my studio. While I care most about my family, I care next most about ideas. I believe reverent curiosity is something so important that I would call it a spiritual priority in life.

Schools are mostly built to carpenter kids into something, then test if that worked. That is fine, but I think we will be dramatically better off as a society if we raise mentally healthy kids, kids who are more gardened than carpentered. In my view, the challenge is that the buildings and institutions of schools are very much designed to carpenter — and probably won’t change any time soon, given the legal frameworks designed to hold them accountable to their carpentry skills. This is what happens when you have “professional childcare workers” of any type — from babysitters to elementary school teachers, the people providing physical care for young kids rule their world. Unlike older kids, the little ones will be carpentered however the adult in front of them so chooses. 

Maybe that doesn’t bother you, like it does me? I can understand that. Many parents think schools are good enough, and that it’s not that big of a deal. I do. Many parents don’t find it weird that adults without kids want to spend all day working with others people’s kids. I do. Many parents may not care if their kids have hands on relationships with their food supply. I do. 

For my family, I will keep building SUNSCHOOL. Our kids may go back to public school. They may go to a private school. We will garden them however they emerge as time goes on. But for right now, I’d rather they spend screen time beside my if they’re going to learn on screens. I’d rather they be in someplace where my understanding of my kids is more important than the views of The Adults in The Building.
͏
"Wisdom begins in wonder." 
----
Socrates 
10 —Spiritual Autism

My mind is wired to only say and see what actually is, so finding spiritual truth can be hard because most traditions rely on something called faith, where you know something without evidence.

Me: “Yeah, I met with the guy. Thanks for setting that up. I know you pulled some strings.” 

My wife, Courtney: “What did he say? Does he think..?”

Me: “Um.” 

Courtney: “Whatever it is..it’s fine, love. I’m here for you.” 

Me: “No it’s not like that. I’m fine. We didn’t do the diagnostics.” 

Courtney: “Oh..wait…Why not??”

Me: “He’s a culture zealot who is intellectually bankrupted by his allegiance to his internal model of ethics, not the science of what I was initially asking. I have too many intellectual white blood cells to trust him after that, so I can’t trust him to diagnose me with anything.” 

Courtney: “Oh.” 

Also Courtney: “It’s a pretty famous Autism research center. As I understand it, it’s one of the few places that will diagnose an adult with low spectrum Aspberger’s.” 

Me: “Yeah…yeah. I know.” 

A ten-second pause that felt like a minute.

Courtney: “Ruling out the autism researcher because he was too emotional about your data you had collected about yourself…” 

Me: laughing 

Courtney: “I think that counts? That’s a yes?”

…

I have never been diagnosed with autism, but there are a bunch of books in our bedroom about couples living where one is on the spectrum and the other not. They are super helpful, and I wouldn’t say our marriage needed saving nor that they saved it, but I would say that it was a much-needed upgrade to our operating system to acknowledge the differences. I’m not sure if I care about being diagnosed, and after reading about the guy, Asperger, I would rather not have anything connected with him in how I view myself. 

Using online clinical assessments, the guides in books, etc. I score pretty high on the spectrum. The comedian Mitch Hedberg had a joke about a round-about AIDS test he took because he was scared to get a real one. The reveal is he calls his friend Bryan and asks if his Bryan knows anybody with AIDS. Bryan says no. Mitch says “phew.” 

In a similar way, when I started asking friends, family, and former colleagues if they thought I was on the spectrum, most giggle uncomfortably then said some variation of “duh.” 

I don’t think I’m alone in this experience at all. I think it’s possible millions of people are wondering if they are somewhere on the spectrum, as it becomes much more culturally acceptable. Maybe environmental factors induced genetic or epigenetic changes. In addition, many people on the spectrum benefit from the use of modern therapy, social media, even medicines or new therapies emerging like psychedelics and neural silks connected to the internet. They may, then, find themselves much more open and willing to share their ideas after those experiences. That is certainly my experience. 

Before accepting this, Courtney and I used to joke that I had “b-tism” which was sure a lot like autism, but more social. 

The understanding that has emerged for me, as a parent, is this: Autism is a mean-spirited word for evolution. There are many neanderthals diagnosing kids with homo sapienism. 

Let’s be real: we’re super ignorant.

For many people, as they age, this process of unfolding truths happens. One layer of truth is that ancient spiritual texts are true. The next layer is that they are not. The next is, yet again, that they very well may be true. 

For example, did a tree become God and talk to Moses? Yes. Well, no. But also, yes. 

We live in an age of first hand religious experiences. You also can burn the bush and see the divine. I’ve done it. I met a deity. A twin-spirited Egyptian cat goddess. This book is part of a sacred mission she set me on, initiating me in her ancient, eternal splendor. Thank you, Sekhmet. Thank you, Bastet.

The thing is… I’m like..one of a LOT of people who have been through something similar recently. Maybe millions. Maybe more. Just in my personal social network, I would bet one in five people who were at my wedding have encountered a deity. Instead of being a story that passes from generation to generation, it’s almost trite to bring up your personal deity encounter at a California dinner party. Everybody has heard enough tripping stories. Thanks, Burning Man. 

My wife encountered an Indian goddess, despite absolutely no prior cultural interaction with that particular goddess that she can recall. The goddess played the flute for her and explained to her that she and her sisters in spirit would build new models of communities. That is what she does today.

These first-hand deity encounters don’t undermine religious texts explicitly, but the attractive power of storytelling about visions and deities that most religions have enjoyed the last several years is profoundly diminished by knowing the real thing is legally available a plane flight away, for many people. It’s like listening to someone describe sex versus having it. If you’ve never had it, listening to the description is very interesting. 

That being said, there is a large and growing base of Christian psychedelic users. The second-largest legal psychedelic user base in America was, until recently, the Santo Daime church, a Christian denomination that relies on ayahuasca use in its practice.

An Emergent view of ancient religious texts may be that they are not wrong, per se, but much of what they describe is less unique than one may be led to believe by practitioners of those religions, whose livelihoods often come from their scarce access to the mystical realm through those stories. 

Perhaps alongside that is the belief that, like the humans of times past, we are simply unfolding our knowledge as we emerge. We are all seekers, peers in that. Being a seeker two thousand years ago was perhaps more special and rare, but the evidence stacks up against that. 

New research like that documented in The Immortality Key shows that it’s possible psychedelic rites of divine discovery were not just common, but based from the same small coastal region from which Christianity and Jesus himself emerged. Jesus may have been a psychedelic shaman as much as a carpenter. The last supper may have been, indeed, the last sacrament. Given that psychedelics are now proven to reduce fear of death, this would have been a smart move. 

Rather than further unpack all religions—and risk people think my intention is to criticize instead of honor them as peers of discovery—I want to label Spiritual Autism as telling the truth as we best know it about religion and spirituality, without editing to fit cultural standards, mores, or expectations. To unabatedly and unabashedly tell the spiritual truth. 

As best as I know it, that is that we don’t know. We don’t know whether there is heaven or hell. We don’t know if Jesus was the ambassador of a God who, as a dude (no wife) created everything. We are not certain that Isis purified Egyptian temples, any more than we know if Spider Woman taught basket weaving to the Dineh. 
We also don’t know if there are UFO’s and aliens here on Earth, or if we live in a simulation.

What we do know is that deities are real; at least, we know that, using certain psychoactive substances, we can intentionally induce mystical experiences where you meet deities. It’s certainly happening somewhere in the world as you read this. 

We know we can worship…what is. It’s easy to make light of Sun Worship as trivial, or atavistic, or as lacking enough structure. But it is real. 

We know we can align when we worship with what is. 

My experience as (probably) being on the spectrum is best described like this: Imagine going to a play, where all life plays out, while the house lights are on. The spotlight operator is as visible as the person in the spot. The stage is there, but the actors are not the same with the house lights on. You can see the purse of the person several seats down from you while the actor speaks. It has a floral print. 

Yet, if the content is to appreciate that you, and people, and purses emerged from the stardust, then maybe it’s fine the house lights are on. 

In that way, being honest about spiritual truth—and spiritual ignorance—doesn’t undermine the warm fuzzies of spiritual practice. It can amplify it. We can build all the things a religion has for the Emergents, without claiming to understand the unknowable. We can be totally honest and have spiritual practice.
͏
“I am the things that are, that will be, and that have been. No one has ever laid open the garment by which I am concealed. The fruit which I brought forth was the sun.”
----
Inscription on the Temple of Neith in Sais, near modern Cairo 
Recorded by Proclus 412-485 AD 

͏

“Two things fill the mind with ever new and increasing admiration and awe, the more often and steadily we reflect upon them: the starry heavens above me and the moral law within me.”
----
Immanuel Kant’s tombstone


11 – We Are All One Thing 

All people are part of one network. That network is increasingly having shared cultural awakening experiences, from yoga and meditation, to psychedelic journeys. Those reinforce the understanding that we all one, which isn’t philosophy, but hard science on many levels.

People talk about “networks” of people, but there is only one. There is just one giant network. What we typically call networks are actually subnetworks. Most accurately — subgraphs. A graph is just a math term for a set of nodes and lines connecting them. We’ll cal them nodes and links, and Networks, for the purpose of building Emergent Networks. 

Before we get to patterns in human networks, let’s visit Venice Beach. It’s an impractical place full of impractical people. It is a place where, even by Los Angeles standards, the character stories of the people are rich and wild. Billionaires dressed like vagrants; working-class people dressed like Instagram models for their two days vacation. Venice is a place where all of humanity is present. 

There is an inscription on a mural in Downtown Los Angeles that reads something like “Los Angeles, where humanity flows out like lava, all forms of rock and all matter of things united into one burning explosion” and that has always resonated with me when I think of LA. It’s a place where every type of person if present, often in unexpected places. (I think of Gay Asian Gun Clubs as a uniquely fitting example of things that aren’t readily available as they are in LA. Imagine any combination of identities, and you can find a neighborhood rich with that combo.) 

I was in Venice because I needed to get to California, and I thought Palo Alto was dull. I was in Venice because my first wife-like relationship, Alison, moved there without me. (We never married, seldom kissed, but shared our lives.) I was in Venice because Venice is fucking awesome. I stayed until I met my wife, and I’m still pulled away from it, technically, in my own inner identity. It is not home, it is my soulmate in a place. It is wild nature, full of crashing waves, giant fish, dolphins, sharks, and true lovers of that wildness, embracing it at dawn every day of the year. It is also where enormous operations for global tech companies host many of the world’s most brilliant beach people. Nothing could so accurately sum up my personality. I admire Daniel Boone just as much as I admire Elon Musk; I admire Frida Khalo as much as I admire Maya Angelou. It is there, in the smashing synthesis of Venice Beach, that I found these forces all tensioned together into a balance I loved, and love to this day. 

Buckminster Fuller coined the term tensegrity to express integrity by tension. If you don’t know what I’m talking about, it’s quite a site to see. You can build a chair that has no legs, only chains. It seems to defy the laws of physics, when done right, but can only happen because designers and engineers followed Fuller and found ways to make it real within the laws of physics. 

Venice is a place of tensegrity. It is too much of everything, yet—at least for those who can keep themselves safe among this wildness of nature and people—a non-trivial component of living there—there is, day to day, just the right amount of it all. You can travel from chaos to sanctuary, the past to the future, across many cultures — all in a 1-hour strolling walk. 

In Venice, a place where many, many models live, you get to a threshold pretty quickly where being beautiful isn’t that interesting. Being interesting is interesting. Being badass is interesting. Being emotionally healthy is especially interesting, I think, to future generations. 

There in Venice, the work I was doing professionally lined up perfectly with my environment to show me that we are truly all one network. In 2005, I co-founded a company called Jute Networks, which set out to map the entire human network. I had ambitions of creating the Network Genome Project, and identifying the network mechanisms—the human roles and relationships, including legal structures—that enabled our current state of affairs so that we could get a view into that network and optimize it. Called it idealistic LinkedIn, with the data inputs happening behind the scenes, not on self-registration. A principal tool of the Jute platform was network visualization. I rendered over 10,000 network visualizations for clients over the life of the company. Across users, consultants, and our internal team, it must have been millions of visualizations rendered over those 6 years. 

Because I was mapping networks at the scale of millions of people as a day job, then working as a nascent street and projection artist in Venice at night, I was seeing the whole network view during the day, and seeing the ground truth of every type of humanity at night. Much like my studies in college, analyzing the same writings in Economics, Philosophy, Political Science, and so on, I was seeing how people and networks worked first hand, up close, all the time. 

Ultimately, the company was not a big success. A Very Big Bank in the Midwest got a perpetual exclusive license. Our clients were big banks and the company was at its best around 2009, from a technology standpoint. The timing was just wrong, in retrospect. Earlier or later, we would have had broader adoption among the leading banks. Today, I guarantee you that your bank has a model of your role in your local and professional networks. 

The old story goes that we’re all six degrees of separation away from one another. I’m not so sure if that’s true, and it’s probably more accurate that we’re 1 to none away from one another. Uncontacted tribes still exist, and there’s evidence they may be more prevalent than realized in some places. So, there are nones. But let’s pretend averages are personally relevant in social and medical data just for this one thing: based on your social media follows, your average social graph distance from most people on earth is probably down to about 4 or 5. Maybe 3 in many circles of loudmouthed social media people. 

Humans are the only species we know that can conceive of and track every member of its species. We absolutely positively know for sure that we’re all related. Yet, we narrow scope these relationships, like we narrow scope so many things to make sense of them. We disavow the obvious for the convenient comfort, intellectually. Distant wars aren’t distant. A war rages in Ukraine, and it would take me less than an hour to contact people I don’t know in Kyiv. I can follow people who know many people who have died in the next minute; I can follow people who know many people who fly Russian warplanes that drop those bombs. The human network has never been so large and diverse; the communication systems of the human network have never been so small and rapid. 

The great hope of this situation, to me, is that suffering is less and less tolerated, as we see it in higher and higher proximity. 

Our wars, our partisanship, our absurd insistence that brands are worth being loyal to — these things are divisive. Why can’t we heal our bitter divisions? 

I think we can. We can recognize that a conservative Muslim person is just a couple of links away from me and my Emergent beliefs. We can recognize that humans are a meta network, and trauma begets traumatizing behavior. In that way, we can focus not just on deterrence of crime through punishment, but through healing for all to stop the vicious cycles of trauma. We can hold up not “forgive and forget” but “address and heal” as a righteous and virtuous because addressing these things and healing from them is good for us all. 

These ideas are not mine, and not new. I want to share with you something I learned from a neoshamanic healer and sensei, and one to whom I am eternally indebted. What I learned is that the ancient Mayans used a term that means “I see my other self in you” — roughly translated. I asked this sensei why they did what they did to heal people, and, along with a big smile, I received this explanation:

“In lak’ech. 

I see my other self in you.” 

In lak’ech, Sensei. Thank you. I see it, too.

We must protect kids.

The impact of child abuse on the human network is incalculable. Outside of war and rampant global heating, abuse is likely our biggest source of trauma. To worship what is prevents us from damaging what is. 

The children assaulted in schools, churches, and civic or extracurricular programs communities should no longer be traumatized away from talking about the reform and progress of those institutions and practices. This isn’t exclusive to sexual trauma. This includes school shootings. This includes rampant drug abuse, especially opioids and meth. This includes all types of abusing children. Starvation — there are millions of children starving right now, in America. 

Kids who have been traumatized shouldn’t hide away any longer. We should write books about new ways, that don’t rely on institutions, and dedicate our lives to building the better way. In that better way, we need to make it as close to impossible as possible to hurt a child, and teach the children themselves to prevent anyone from getting away with it. 

I cannot be more clear that I don’t think most Christians have anything to do with child sexual abuse, any more than I think they are guilty of the crimes of the Crusades or the Inquisition. I imagine there are Cowboy Churches where a red-handed perpetrator of child abuse might accidentally fall off a horse. I know there are courageous whistleblowers reforming religious practice around the world. All of that doesn’t change the fact that most people are not participating in religion as they once did, and those people still need spiritual infrastructure. I believe that people of faith would actually prefer that those of us left floating without a spiritual infrastructure dedicated ourselves to being Emergents, in public, than to continue to drift about; just as they might feel more comfortable sorting out some business dispute with a devout Jewish family than they would with soulless consumers addicted to their smartphones. 

We are all interconnected. We are all one thing. Abusing any child in any way is a wound to us all.

The Horseshoe Consortium: where traditional conservatives and traditional liberals meet on ideas like hunting.

The Emergents already exist, they just don’t identify this way — yet. There is a strange Horseshoe Consortium forming, where people who live by their values have more in common than those who do not, for the most part. Wedge issues like abortion are dominating our mindsets, with other issues could be things we widely agree upon. A starting point is that kids need to be raised in some type of spiritual tradition. That’s what being Emergent is about, in part. 

The idea of a Horseshoe Consortium comes from politics and political science. You see it when people on opposite ends of an issue agree on something, for often nearly inverted reasons. For example, I think it’s silly for women to shave their legs; an Amish Christian, who is about as distant as you can get from me, culturally, might also agree. 

Important horseshoes are emerging. Hunting is full of horseshoe hunting partners, these days. Some of the greatest hunters I know are either very devout Christians, or post-awakening Emergent-type people. Both have a reverence for the land, albeit on different scales of entitlement and reverence. These exist within families, where, for example, adult brothers might be one Christian and one post psychedelic awakening. They can revere the beauty of the hunt and cherish sharing it with their extended family one and the same. 

The trick to making these new allies emerge and succeed is partly communicating our values, and partly recognizing that government policies impact us all in similar ways. We live at a time of allowing parents to take public funding to educate their children, and that opens the door to Emergent private schools, a case I’ll make in a later chapter. 

In many ways, traditionally conservative rural people have shared values with Emergents. My wife and I are committed to using land we have to produce food, not lawns. We have volunteered to help out on a family ranch during hay cutting season. We fish and hunt. We are growing ever more confident in our ability to quasi-homestead, some of the year, when we’re not in urban mode. That’s not the same as folks living off the land up the road from our place in Southern Appalachia, but the gardens are indiscernible. The plants don’t give a damn about our politics, nor even know they exist. We’re space monkeys doing planting, weeding, and irrigation. The sun and the soil and the mushrooms are doing the rest. It’s a team effort. And in that way, our priorities align. Our Emergent homestead is just as dependent on the rain, the climate, and the local prices for supplies as any other, even if we only live there part-time. It’s not a rich person’s hobby house, it’s a small business. It’s a lifestyle. And it’s part of an identity. 
 
In this way, it’s my hope that, by seeing we are all one network, with many more aligned values than not, we begin to think more deeply about how we are all one thing. I hope Emergents are anti-partisan. People of disparate rainbow politics, not one silly little single color team or the other. 

But beyond all of that, I hope we see that we are not just one network, but we are all one thing. The cosmic clay from which we are all molded is the same block of clay that made the dinosaurs. It’s Earth clay, or to some, Gaia. It’s the same set of hexagons, like Henrietta, in infinite permutations. Christ is here with us because some of the carbon that made Christ is on an olive oil orchard outside of Beirut right now, and soon to be packaged up and sent to a chef in Bangalore, where he will use it to cook a fish that includes carbon that was once the Buddha. 

We are all one thing. There is no boundary of the human network, nor between us and the Earth—from Gaia—from which we came. This isn’t a lofty spiritual philosophy. It’s hard science. Once we accept that, we begin to see the opportunity for a new way of spiritual practice. Once we see that vision for a more aligned, peaceful world—full of experiments in ways of living—some of us feel not just eager and excited to build it, but somewhat obligated to use our gift of consciousness to increase love and creation, and decrease suffering around us. 

Spiritual oneness from 5,000 years ago — validated by quantum oneness today. 

The ultimate oneness is quantum oneness. This philosophy of all things being one, in some way, shape, or form—including possibly things or realms we don’t know about, or just in this world at a quantum level—is generally called monism. From Hinduism to modern quantum theory, at some level, we know and have always know that all is one. Literally and metaphysically or metaphorically. 

From monism we can derive that we are all equal, in some way, in that we are all stardust, vibrated into consciousness by the sun. Given enough time, carbon becomes self-aware, then generates new forms of intelligence itself. Things like hatred, genocide, and war are poor acts of gratitude of our shared experience as the Universe awakened. Even policing can be done with love and gratitude that we exist, and the best police officers and law enforcement officials I’ve had the honor to know believe that in their hearts and souls. To the credit of their faiths, for many of them. 

You meet a lot of law enforcement professionals in MMA gyms and dojos, and when I think of those men and women I’ve briefly trained with in the past, I’m grateful, and I see that many—many—of them has cross tattoos. Their faith keeps the lion in them from being a predator. I honor that, and respect it in the bottom of my heart. 

Here is a working technical definition, to be updated later, for Emergent philosophy of religion: 

Emergent Religion recognizes three layers of existence: First, the known unknown, the unknowable unknown, and, possibly, an unknowable unknown. Second, the layer of objective monism, including the quantum realm, and the cosmic dust from which all things have been made and from which all things will be made. Third, and finally, the layer in which we live, the world of people and plants, of bits and atoms.

Our oneness is our justification for our compassion. Worshiping creation by worshiping the sun is a time-honored tradition. The Emergent movement is the long-needed recognition of the oldest religion ever practiced: a combination of a deep inner knowing about our cosmic oneness, and an equal knowing that the mystery remains veiled to us. 
͏
“That which exists is One; the sages call It by various names.”
----
The Rig Veda 
PEOPLE


But if at the Church they would give us some Ale. 
And a pleasant fire, our souls to regale; 
We’d sing and we’d pray, all the live-long day; 
Nor ever once wish from the Church to stray. 

William Blake 


12—Community Identity 

Communities Run on themes, events, and identities. 

How do we build a spiritual practice people actually want to participate in? We create demand. How? Community. It’s embedded in us to seek community, and to many of us, to seek communities with shared spiritual beliefs. To achieve the goal of community building, we need to have spiritual infrastructure, like buildings, brands, and events. We can’t have spiritual infrastructure for the space age if we don’t have some basic administrative structure that makes things happens. 

Communities of people can coordinate on their “local” beliefs and practices. Maybe we’ll call it decentralized religion.

Events are the drum beat of spiritual practice in community —  be it worship, holiday, education, or as simple as barbecue or craft making. At one level, making hexagon-shaped ornaments to decorate a Solstice tree is good enough. People have been doing that for thousands and thousands of years, possibly tens of thousands, going back long before the New Faiths. On another level, communities need activities, places, and structured programming. That requires people. 

One of the biggest problems with forming administrative structure is you form institutions, and then become the thing you were escaping. We have to avoid Emergent Institutions. It should be subnetworks. Small groups, that coordinate synchronized things. 

I believe Sunset Sunday is a rally cry we could get around. Be it in public parks or back yards, in venues or on vacations, having Emergents watch the sunset on the Sundays that they can is a good global synchronization. Things like that are relatively easy. 

Coordinating one event, small scale, with one speaker and one performer and 20 guests is fairly easy. How do we do lots of easy things at scale instead of big things centralized? How do we make a decentralized spiritual infrastructure? 

It doesn’t seem like it makes it easier to have the core belief system be “Who knows? But I’m grateful!” but it does. Why wouldn’t an Emergent participate in all sorts of activities and do them in gratitude? Could we all do Screen Free Sunday as well? It would give Emergents a huge mental health advantage? 

(Should we bring the Sabbath back to our lives? I seriously consider doing so.)

Themes allow people to coordinate. If we use Themes and Seasons, we can build global connections and synchronizations. 

A Theme might be “You are Stardust” and have a year-long series of events. Some might be science lectures, some might be kid-friendly instructional about the history of the universe. Speakers can be invited (and hired) to come speak, while giving people tours of the universe. Kids can do stardust glitter face paint. We can commune for stargazing. 

A Theme might be Self-Care. A Theme might be Things To Love About Jewish Tradition. A Theme might be Virtual Reality Temple Building. 

A Theme might be Producing Events. My childhood experiences helping with soundboards at churches opened countless doors for me. If you notice across multiple stories my access to some of the most extraordinary people has come because I knew how to work a soundboard in college, and took $10 an hour pay, less than other people with the same skills at the time.

Rather than have a centralized authority direct these themes, I would propose a system where Themes have Founders. This works really well for startups, and Themes can be short-lived or long-term, depending on intentions. I could see a platform, a simple app where people can promote Theme ideas, and seek critical mass. From reading groups to wacky Wednesdays, people can do as they please. 

It wouldn’t surprise me if popular themes for Emergents to participate in focus on the “truth” of the religions we grew up in. For example, the true story of Jesus is emerging as one of an awakened shaman who was reborn through a psychedelic awakening where the virgin Goddess rebooted his life. From there he became a traveling shaman, awakening people with water made into wine — with water laced with psychedelics, perhaps. Eventually, the authorities killed him, as what we today might know as a drug trafficker of sorts. It’s easy to see how his living resurrection morphs into one that defies biology after his physical death. For me, it is comforting to imagine Jesus as someone who might see the healing taking place in the modern psychedelic movement and approve of decreasing suffering and maximizing human use of conscious time in healthy and happy ways. I prefer knowing the faith I was raised in is rooted in something and someone I can relate to, not a distant concept giving authority to religious institutions and leaders. I love Jesus when I feel I truly understand him. I don’t think he’s my Lord or Savior, but I love the man as I know him.

Sharing this with my kids and with the community around is a testament to how humble Emergents can be. While all monotheistic Abrahamic religions (Christianity, Gnosticism, Judaism, and Islam) exclude other religions as polytheistic sins against the one true God, I believe Emergents can celebrate that there may be anywhere from no true God to many. Our commitment to curious discovery is our passport to lovingly, respectfully exploring the lessons and virtues of faith-based spiritual practices. 

Perhaps as important—even more important—than the history and theology, we can learn from the methodology. Churches, Synagogues, and Mosques are many things — among them, typically well-run nonprofits with real estate, administration, and a complex set of content and live event programming. The amount of production that goes into a megachurch Christmas service for 5,000 attendees is equal to any on Broadway. The level of complexity of the Catholic school system around the world is on the scale of any nonprofit or state education administration. And the amount of training, work, and budget poured into the people who lead these programs for these institutions is on the same scale as many sectors of the economy. 

Let’s mimic the parts of that we can, rather than cut from fresh cloth. Let’s agree on Themes, and program Events that grow Communities, just as we can learn from our friends and family in faith-based spiritual communities.

We could use Theme “Founders” as a mechanism to build a decentralized organization.

How do we govern this? That’s another book. I think we start the dialog with how Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAO’s) are formed in crypto communities, and analyze spiritual communities. A SUN DAO or SOLAR DAO could be our future. 

The key question for this—and for our age—will be what Juvenal described in Satires, written approximately 100 AD: Quis custodiet ipsos custodes? Who will watch the watchers themselves? 

What role does this play in Emergent governance structures? What role might Emergents play in society? 

Maybe I will take on the role of Founder of the Self-Reflection Theme. This might include governance, and personal mechanisms of self-reflection. I believe that self-reflection and leadership need to be indelibly tied. I will do this for 6 years max; 1 year minimum. After the 1st year, I’ll ask the Theme participants to survey or vote on my continued leadership somehow. Each Theme leader should make a graceful exit plan before starting, and share that publicly. 

It should be easy enough to make guides and manuals that help produce Emergent events. Worksheets, templates, and digital documents can basically automate the process for many small groups. 

Among those might be things some group of Emergents tries to synch globally. Types of Ceremonies might be a good place to start. Here’s a whiteboard style list, offered humbly as a starting point for dialog. What do you think?

1) Gratitude for Emergence 
2) Gratitude for Emerging Together 
3) Gratitude for Ancestors 
4) Hope for the Future 
5) Solar Holidays: Solstices and Equinoxes 
6) Feast of The Harvest & Feast of The Hunt 


Rites of passage are a fundamental part of the spiritual tradition. It ties communities together, creates memorable life moments, and passes on tradition. Emergents can craft our traditions. As they say, great artists don’t borrow, they steal. While don’t dare have baptisms (and why?) since that would be very offensive and pointless, can we have baby welcoming ceremonies? While we won’t have communion, can we have feasts? Yes. Yes, we can. 

The Feast of The Harvest may include a garden salad made by young Emergents as a part of a Gardening Theme. The Gardening worship service may coincide with a fall harvest. The Gardening book club may range from Neo-shamanic commune with plant souls readings to classics of garden maintenance and fertilization for home gardens. 

This gives people something to look forward to as well. Preparation for big events plays as big a role as the events themselves in building community. 

It will take a lot of marketing to get people to these events. The one thing we may need to centralize is branding and messaging, as well as some core policies. 

Parents, especially, will want to know details. We will have to deal with mass shootings. I would like to Co-Found the Safety Theme with several people much more qualified than myself to address this. In this way, we will teach courage as a value of Emergents. 

Worshiping the sun is legit. Worship what is starts with the Sun. We are all Gaia, Earth. The Sun is the energy from which all things happen. What we don’t know is where any of it came from.

Whatever we worship, it’s not just the practice of gratitude and thanksgiving that makes the practice worthwhile. My parents had a deep commitment to service work. My dad had been homeless as a kid, so I grew up helping homeless people. In my teenage years, I spent thousands of hours doing work with people around the country. It anchored me to the understanding that we are all one thing. I am not my brother’s keeper, but I am so grateful I emerged from the stardust with my family that I want all people’s lives to be good enough that they too can revel and revere at these deep spiritual truths and mysteries. 

But the notion of philanthropy is growing old fast. The pat on the head form of help is not super helpful. Long-term change is just that — long term, thereby, often very slow. To be honest, those experiences were karmically balanced. I received as much love as I gave.

I earned a chance to learn a different sacred identity as a child.

When I was younger, I saw first-hand how indigenous religions today blend with Christianity and psychedelic practice. I want to share a story of my first mystical experience, which involved no drugs, and no religion I understood at the time, having been raised in a Protestant church. The important part of this story, to me now, is that the best of spiritual practice doesn’t come from money, nor even from things like service work to those in need. It comes simply from gratitude, reverence, and community. People of all types and creeds can come together, and there are infinite pathways to experience the certainty that you are part of something bigger than yourself. Those include a boy banging a drum in a canyon, as I’m about to share… 

Many nights before I sat under Spider Rock, where Spider Woman taught the people how to make baskets, gazing up at the infinite heavens, truly seeing them for the first time, I sat anxiously in a fluorescent church hall on a cheap folding chair. Before me sat chili, and I grabbed the spoon and took a deep breath, the tried a bite. It was great, but I was sheepish about eating mutton. I knew it was shot with a rifle at close range, which, for me, was not a typical experience. We had neither backyard sheep nor rifle slaughter in my lower middle-class suburb of Florida. We had Haitian neighbors with goats and sharp knives, though, and redneck neighbors with sharks strung up on the other side. It wasn’t that far afield, but close-proximity rifle slaughter was a distinctly Dineh thing, in my life experience at sixteen. 

The Dineh (or Diné) is the real name for the Navajo; although at this point, I think plenty of people own both, or don’t care. In 1997, it was a sign of respect to say Dineh instead of Navajo, so it’s ingrained in me to say it that way.

My father directed the time, talent, and treasure that went to the Navajo Nation from several churches. My mother was like the producer to his director, keeping it all organized, as we took large caravans of people out to the desert in the summer to do service work. To my parents’ credit—especially my dad—we worked our butts off. We would get up at 4am to drink coffee and do roofing repairs on improvised roofs of elderly people’s homes before the sun got too hot. We would run caravans of supplies across the desert, filling vans and rental trucks in Phoenix and Tuba City with supplies to rebuild schools and community centers. 

A strange cultural fusion emerged. My dad is not the average church worker. Like me, has is capable of playing many characters. One was a screenwriter, with a military background applicable to spy shows and mysteries, and medical equipment training videos on the side. He is a distinguished veteran. One of those characters—he has been made great sacrifices to our country, earning three Purple Hearts. I’m proud to be the son of a disabled veteran, the brother of a veteran, the brother-in-law of a veteran, the nephew of a veteran, the cousin of a veteran, friend of many veterans, aggrieved friend of veterans lost to combat and to suicide, and donor to and advocate for veterans’ causes. My father came from a hard place, as hard as the hardest parts of the reservations where we now volunteered. People can see that, and when someone like that wakes up at 4am to staple shingles he bought with his own money to fix the leaking roof of another disabled veteran who had not the luck, opportunity, and even perhaps perseverance that he has — people will give respect to someone who they had every reason not to trust. 

The church, like the government, had a long history of sending soldiers and former soldiers to be the front line of relationships with indigenous people. Many of them were burning down homes, not repairing them. In a strange twist, many indigenous men have served in the military. As I was told by veterans on the reservation—not my interpretation—the two big reasons were that it was money, and it was the only way to be a warrior still. 

(Do old Dineh men at a church picnic tell young white teenage boys their deep personal truths? I would assume not. Maybe what they told me was real, possibly just polite conversation?) 

We worked and we worked. Summer after summer. 

Over time, my parents earned deep respect from many people in Chinle. Over A&W root beer floats and fry bread, we sang, and laughed, and read a little Bible, but also played countless games. I learned how to strip silver skin from venison, and got schooled at basketball again and again by Dineh boys and girls. 

It was in this community of trust that my first opportunity to cross the mystical threshold emerged — although I couldn’t come close to understanding or describing it that way when I was that age. 

I sat with my parents on the gate of an F-150 of a friendly local who said we could sit at the edge of the powwow. There were a few families with white-by-marriage people who were in the mix of the powwow, but we were not them. Content with our place about 50 yards (45.72 m) away from the outer circle of people, we relished the music. 

I was in the marching band. And also a great and passionate daily drummer. I was in punk bands, and church bands, and community fair bands. The drumming on the big drums at a pow-wow in Tséyiʼ (Canyon de Chelley, Arizona), a spot once photographed by Ansel Adams in one of his most popular prints. We were in a part of the land that is only accessible to the Dineh, and the depth of the canyon walls framed the stars that you could cleanly see the Milky Way with the naked eye. I had never seen anything like it, and have not until now. 

Pastor Martha was our host and ambassador. She varied in her hosting tactics from borderline auntie, jovial and joking, to a nervous North Korean style official hosting controversial diplomats, depending on which old Dineh people were around. She walked up to us with a smile. We thanked her profusely for letting us sit and watch. It was a rare honor at that time and place, and we knew it.

She said, “Come on.” in a quiet excitement. 

I sat confused. 

She said, “Come on, come on.” waving me down from the truck. 

I had played the drums around her church, and she knew I could keep a beat. She had asked one of the groups of guys if I could play a drum. They chose the absolute most simple thing they could think of, what I now assume was a rhythm for their toddler children, and let me attempt to keep up. 

She brought me over, and sit with men, with elders, with people I understood. No church ceremony ever offered me a place to be wild, to be free, to sing and drum under the stars. To feel the deer pelt on the drum. To feel the leather in stick. To hear the beads rattle. To feel at one with the desert. To be free under the infinite unknown. 

In the middle of that song, I experienced a mystical moment. Self awareness about being a white dude, and some early semblance of shame of cultural appropriation—as people would call it today—all faded. This was a gift. This was people of their own will sharing a sacrament with a young man who had come to trust, one who worked hard, and respected them. The only white kid trying to learn to speak Dineh, which is about like watching a horse learn algebra. 

Today it is my responsibility to tell this story, to share this tradition. Not as some poser trying to prove some indigenous tourism rite on social media; I didn’t choose to have this experience.  These gracious and beautiful people welcomed me in and taught me another dimension of what spiritual community can be, and I am forever grateful. 

As we build a practice around what it means to be an Emergent, I will work my hardest to build some authentic mechanism for my children to experience something somehow similar. 

Yá'át'ééh. Ahéhee’.

Knowing our role. 

By many accounts, some indigenous communities had formal roles within their tribal structures. The role of father could be given to adult men, as purportedly happened to Daniel Boone, when adopted by the Shawnee leader Blackfish — who was also an adopted father figure to the great warrior and orator Tecumseh. Boone was in his 40s when he was adopted! 

The idea of an “aunt” or “auntie” who isn’t really one’s mother’s sister is common across countless cultures. My kids have aunties, who range from Southern Appalachian to Afro-Mexicana. They even have an Appalachian uncle or two, men happy to be known for squirrel hunting and fine cooking. 

What if Emergents had formal roles and commitments? Many churches still practice the tradition of Godparent, with involvement varying by tradition, culture, and family. For the congregations where the Godparents stand side-by-side with the parents at the baptism, it’s usually a beautiful and meaningful commitment. 

What if Emergents had aunties and uncles? As I think about what really matters, my instinct is that it’s time commitment and the absolute commitment to avoid social or emotional problems wi the kids’ parents — and to be dedicated to working to solve problems when they do come up. I would bet many people would make a 10 point promise to be aunties and uncles to kids growing up Emergent. 

I hope you’ll imagine with me a beautiful ceremony in a park with a good view of sunset for a Sunset Sunday. A musician sings in the background, while all the pairs of aunties and kids and uncles and kids join together for picnics among each group. There’s a community potluck element, where people can go from picnic to picnic, welcome at each stop. Everyone celebrates that the new aunties and uncles have committed to the kids to be a part of their life. Typically, for something like one good hour a month, or one meal a month, or maybe just each summer — even every other summer! What’s probably most important is to promise something you can keep good on. In the modern era, that might mean doing it via video chat some day, as people move around a lot. That’s OK. It’s being there in any form that counts. 

This same dynamic could be true for people supporting one another. Honorary brothers and sisters — or whatever the label may be. Temp Besties. The label could be just about anything. What’s critical is to make real commitments to one another. We face an epidemic of loneliness, and I have felt it many times in my life. Especially the past few years, surviving a literal pandemic. It seems worth a shot to try formalizing some friendships. It doesn’t take a big cheesy deal, just an email, maybe. It could be that the role of an Emergent Community, locally, is to facilitate this. Dinners for Honorary Brothers and Aunties? 

Formal roles for ritual can lead to similar relationships. Emergent weddings are probably a lucrative opportunity. If anybody says they’re ordained as Emergent, they made that up, and it has nothing to do with me. I suspect many Interfaith ministers would be happy to stick to Emergent philosophy; and that a lot of Emergents still want the rituals from their family traditions. 

(And the ones we all see on social media, to be honest. Oh, you have Edison bulbs at your reception? So unique.) 

((We had Edison bulbs at our wedding.))

Micro-networks will make Sunset Sundays, Weddings, Feasts, and Funerals work. What if there were small self-sustaining networks who committed to be these roles to one another: 

Place Maker Find the space to do Sunset Sundays. i.e., Book the public park for a group. Coordinate parking and bathrooms. 

Decorator Beautify and sanctify. In temporary ways, in most cases. 

Greeters Say hello and welcome, especially new people. 

Music / Performance / Vibes Coordinate occasional music — or just bring a speaker and a good playlist! 

Social Media Poster Post, chat, invite, be nice.

This would work, I think. Of course, it would adapt to each micro network, but that’s the whole point. Later I’ll discuss the software I’m building, Sundial, and how it can help these roles. 

My daughter loves being the line leader at kid events. She also likes being the fire starter for the campfires when we go camping. She loves being the cookie cutter outer on Christmas (and Solstice) Cookie Day each year. These are all ritual roles that are subtle. Pushing a little more formal is, I think, a good thing. Like a church, but way more chill. 

I don’t mean to imply that these Emergent rituals or roles will equate to the deep spiritual sense and intergenerational tradition that was connected to life role in the indigenous communities that existed before the conquest of the Americas; and, in many cases, they probably don’t equate to the spiritual roles that are held by American Indian community members around the United States and Reservations today. But social roles don’t need to be ancient or atavistic to be meaningful. We can create our own destiny here. 

The secret of the elders, though—in all cultures—is that scientific and spiritual truth was emerging for them, as it is for us. It’s more likely that they were perpetually reinventing social roles than legitimately carrying them on across generations. The real tradition is, in part, making it up as we walk along together.
͏
"Alone we can do so little; together we can do so much." 
----
Helen Keller 
13—Art & Magic


A good magic trick brings joy and delight to people. Performing magic brings satisfaction to the performer. 

A good piece of art brings to a person who favors it whatever that person wants. A good piece of art brings to the artist the opportunity to exercise their birthright, as consciousness emergent from the stardust. The bounds of our self-expression are nearly infinite, and now amplified by infinite permutations that can be rendered by computers. It is truly only the limits of the human imagination, and in some rare cases legal systems, that stop every idea from existing in human consciousness. To make art is to celebrate our infinite capacity to render what is other from the reality in which we live. 

It’s a profound tool that we don’t quite use right, in my opinion. We are symbolism monkeys as much as we are meat eaters; we are storytellers are much as we are hunters. We need stories to make sense of the world, and when we mostly just consume stories sold to us as profitable products, we disavow our own creative capacity to make infinite versions of everything. 

Imaging your favorite superhero. Now put them in a ballerina dress. Your mind—hopefully—just rendered something into existence. Now, with the advent of superpowers AI tools, you can see that image in seconds, for a fee of cents. 

Perhaps what we have called magic in the past and what we call reality now are inverse. It seems to me that the magic is in the fact that carbon can vibrate in such a way that it stores consciousness, and that consciousness can make sense of itself even more a miracle. We should focus ourselves on the now when we discuss magic and miracles, rather than take for granted, as our ancestors did, this world. It seems we are less in a heaven and hell kind of system, and more in a what you make of it kind of system. 

Religious art has dominated the way people make art since the dawn of art made by humans. Many of our great monuments, great painters, and great works of theater all center around religious figures and religious life. We still take our story cues from religious stories. From Disney movies to all Arabesque art, we derive meaning and purpose from religious stories. Even our cartoons and comic books often borrow from or simply reskin religious stories. 

The production of worship services has always been a great spectacle. From Easter Mass in Italy to the Hindu Holi, the festival of colors, we go to great lengths to reach both mystical states and warm fuzzies in our religious event production. In recent hears, Evangelical churches have led the way in using Hollywood-grade production in their live events, which have simultaneously taken broadcast religious television to new heights with live event footage. Production companies now produce indiscernible-from-Hollywood shows and movies based on Biblical stories. 

How, then, can an Emergent approach religious events? How might we find spectacle that enriches, enlivens, inspires, and connects Emergents? How can we attract new Emergents? What does Emergent evangelism look like? 

The last is the easiest to answer: 

“Hey, do you want to keep searching for spiritual answers, or are you good with what you’ve got? If you want to search, you’re an Emergent. Welcome!” 

Not really. There’s no such thing as Emergent evangelism, at least not that I can think of. Why would you try to convince someone you don’t know that you don’t know how the spiritual universe works? To help with experiments, sure, but you can pay talented scientists and engineers without convincing them to consider themselves an Emergent. 

As Justin Vernon (Bon Iver) says in a Big Red Machine Album, “You are what you are. You are what you are. You are what you are. You are what you are.” 

But let’s say there are thousands of Emergents around the country, and hundreds in Asheville, NC. We rent out a big performance venue, and we put on a Winter Solstice celebration. Everyone is invited, and it’s a way for people in our culture to share a holiday tradition from their beliefs with their families, who may be of other beliefs. We decide we can host 400 people, which isn’t a particularly big event crowd for a 1,000 person performance venue. We will have plenty of room to have everyone seated. 

We decide we’ll follow a tried and true script, borrowed from many other religious traditions, but decidedly Emergent. We’ll start with a super badass performance, like a 24-person Emergent Solar Gospel Choir and nothing but a piece of installation art in the center of the stage. The art is a fractal hexagon with a circle in the middle. It’s a carbon molecule, a symbol of our gratitude for our consciousness emerging from the stardust. 

An Emergent mom comes up and shares her story of looking for a spiritual tradition with some structure that she could personally believe, personally buy into. She gets a laugh out of structure from the structureless, and shows a photo of her kids playing on a camping trip with other Emergents. 

An AI tool has modified the kids faces, for privacy. An Emergent high schooler did the modification, and earned school credits in computer science for the work. 

The choir performs again, and the band continues to play as a young Neo-shamanic Cherokee woman takes the stage. She offers a serious bit of homage to the land and her ancestors; jokes about her F-150 pickup truck and condo in town, highlighting what we all have in common. 

The whole room sings a simple humming tune together, and the effect of hundreds of voices in a room singing sends chills. 

A speaker welcomes people who think this is crazy hippy stuff, and talks about their faith background. We talk about how everybody can value the Solstice. 

A short series of clips and photos from the Emergent community tell the story of the changes of the local environment this time of year, and celebrate the passing of another year. A speaker tells a sad and poignant story about a loved one they lost that year; a cellist plays a sad piece. The next speaker tells about their new baby born that year; the choir celebrates, along with the cellist. 

At the end, everyone goes outside. If it’s raining, we stand in the rain—those who can—and give thanks for it. If it’s snowing, the same. If it’s clear, we choose a star to celebrate, and hope it is vibrating the universe into consciousness, like our extraordinary Sun and Moon. 

People take home gift bags and the kids have cool hexagon shirts. 

From the Universe emerges synthesizers; from synthesizers emerge music; from music emerges emotion.

Bob Moog unlocked the magic of the universe. Moog invented the instrument we now call a synthesizer. In doing so, he built a “tool to make an instrument” and saw himself not as a tool user, but a toolmaker. Bob Moog recognized that all sound was vibration, and that electricity was vibration. He recognized that circuits could render waves that were simulacra of real instruments. He used analog electronic circuits to create vibration that, to the human ear, sound like a trumpet, or sound like an organ. It’s not exact, in most cases, but it is close. The real beauty is in the sounds synthesizers can make that instruments cannot. There are an infinite number of things a person can do with an analog synthesizer — so many combinations that it’s likely that humans have only made a small fraction of the possible sounds and patterns that could be made with a Moog analog synthesizer. I keep one a few feet from my desk, and it’s a powerful tool for creative self-expression. 

It is the work product of a many driven not so much by profit, but by the emergence of new tools that toolmakers like him could use to expand the horizon of human creativity. He was a masterful organic garden, and I was fortunate to visit his home many times, and been able to see his greenhouse systems, engineered as masterfully as his handmade synthesizers. Sadly, this was after his passing, during my time on the Board of The Bob Moog Foundation. 

Moog—as I came to understand it—saw flowers and fruit and everything in the garden as emerging from the universe, just as sound emerged from a synthesizer, or a vocal cord, or a guitar, a piano, or a tuba. While it is the rarified nerd who knows the details of analog synthesizers, among our tribe you can find many of the greatest living musicians. From Snoop Dogg to Taylor Swift, from Bjork to Jamila Woods — people who want rich soundscapes and profound creative range in the studio use Moog instruments. They are the Rolls-Royce of synthesizer. 

I’m committed to building “worship” style services that use Moog synthesizers. They are analog. The electricity does not pass through a computer, so the sound isn’t digitized into tiny 1’s and 0’s pretending to be normal sound waves in your ears. It’s raw energy from the universe pumping through your speakers or headphones, just like any acoustic instrument or drum. It’s different. 

As a creative theme, contrasting this raw capacity that does not require computers for electronic art with images and videos produced by AI that is also receiving the synthesizer input would offer something to think about, and a rich performance experience for the viewer. What I find most interesting about Moog and his story is not our shared passion for Southern Appalachia. It’s that we, ourselves, are electrical waveforms vibrating on top of our physical bodies. Conscious thoughts, synthesizer notes, and blueberries are all the result of mathematical structures vibrating and changing. Listening to a favorite song, on a sunny day, munching on blueberries is a good moment, and at that moment—in a way—we are all one thing. Vibrations, all the way down. 

There are no boundaries on how to make Emergent art. A Moog synth would be a magical device to Mozart. I hope we see the next Moog in my lifetime. Someone who can take a fundamental force like electricity, and have the breakthrough that we can use it to make art, music, love, and joy.

Another way to make Emergent art is storytelling. In the following five chapters, I have written, for you, a few short poems, and a few short stories. Each expresses a part of who I am, and a part of my spiritual journey. I hope to read your story soon, too. 
͏
"Art is not what you see, but what you make others see." 
----
Edgar Degas
14—4 Poems

The Earning Tree 

One day something said to me 
‘Hello, I’m a tree!’

And I said ‘what? 
no way.
go away!’

The next year 
it was clear 
I had nothing to fear 

I’m attorney, you see
The tree needed counsel from me 

It said 
‘I NEED TO OWN A CORPORATION!’

It says ‘That’s where all the power lies.’

And I thought 
‘Can’t I look this guy in the eyes?’ 

But the tree could pay my fee
So I was into service unto thee 

51 percent of shares are now owned by Birch 
A tree, on which, today, birds shit and perch 

Soon Birch built a retreat center 
Anyone kind can enter  

All people do 
is pay a bit
and have a sit 

Tree gives them shade 
and not much more 
soon 
screen 
addicts 
find 
it 
a 
bore 

Some among us 
see something more 

We continue to invest our hard-earned cash 
To pay for something that could easily be Ash 

We know in our hearts that Tree would invest wisely 
And so we’ve seen the corporation’s portfolio grow nicely 

Eventually Mr. Tree Birch started to buy more land, 
and place it trust for generations 
on every bit of our new land, 
each tree is also given 
its
own 
new 
corporation

As subsidiaries grow, our leverage does, too 
And our CEO Tree knows just what to do 

When we became the biggest conglomerate above the soil 
Our pal Birch 
used the money 
to buy control 
of all the oil 

Tree knows death will come one day, 
and so it must give the company away  	

It’s decided now, and we’ll act it out just how  
I wrote the clause myself:
any child who napped 
in, near, or under Birch’s hammocks
or any subsidiary hammock 
or who has watched the sunset 
from said hammock
has earned 
some sway 
the rights
the pay 

This new board of directors 
is seeking new sectors

They’re impressed 
and want to invest 

Actually quite near to where you are, 
my dear 

So let us know right away 
if you have a tree that suits 

Start today 
planning your investment 
in 
tree 
roots 

You Are The Sunshine

To the tune of You Are My Sunshine.

You are the sunshine
Just dust and sunshine
I hope you’re happy
For all your days 
Please always know, dear
How much I love you 
That I thank the sunshine 
Each day 


magic jacket

I saw a man in a brand new jacket 
It said WE ARE ALL ONE THING 
He knows what I mean 
He has seen 
He is me 
͏
Vanity of Vanities
by Helen Hunt Jackson
----
Bee to the blossom, moth to the flame;
Each to his passion; what 's in a name?

Red clover 's sweetest, well the bee knows;
No bee can suck it; lonely it blows.

Deep lies its honey, out of reach, deep;
What use in honey hidden to keep?

Robbed in the autumn, starving for bread;
Who stops to pity a honey-bee dead?

Star-flames are brightest, blazing the skies;
Only a hand's-breadth the moth-wing flies.

Fooled with a candle, scorched with a breath;
Poor little miller, a tawdry death!

Life is a honey, life is a flame;
Each to his passion; what's in a name?

Swinging and circling, face to the sun,
Brief little planet, how it doth run!

Bee-time and moth-time, add the amount;
White heat and honey, who keeps the count?

Gone some fine evening, a spark out-tost!
The world no darker for one star lost!

Bee to the blossom, moth to the flame;
Each to his passion; what 's in a name?
15 —The Cast and Crew of The Grand Temple

“We need more razzle dazzle.” I said to a group of young people in their 20s. 

Deer in headlights, they stared back at me.

“Like…if we could afford it, this would be taking place on a perfectly lit stage, under a giant hexagonal geodesic dome, full of glass windows, looking out over the sunset, on the evening of winter solstice. It would speak to the reverence we all share for the gift of consciousness. It would define the way a generation worships.” 

A young woman with jet black hair—cut long on one side, short on the other—spoke up. “We can do that in post. We can AI edit it.” 

Now I stared back at her, doe eyed, with my head cocked to the side. 

“Using the Community Center stage?” 

“Sure, yeah.” she said back like it was not worth talking about because it was so obvious.

I gathered my wits. “Well. Um. That could be cool. We still have to like…perform.” 

I paused. “Right?” 

She laughed and confirmed the software would need a base layer of performance captured to render out anything like that. After a baffling notion of what the final product could look like in video, I tried to steer it back to my comfort zone. I had set about to produce the first Emergent Solstice Celebration. It would take place outside Austin, TX, under a crisp, cool, starry night. 

I reminded the team that had assembled that we wanted to focus on the present moment, to be grateful for emerging, and to share our gratitude through performances that leave people in awe. They were there for a variety of reasons. Some were volunteers, true believers in the emergence of The Emergents. Some were, admittedly, hired hands with a lot of production experience. The musicians were hand-selected and landed in the Venn diagram of the two. Their lyrics and performances were distinctly Emergent flavored, but they were also getting paid. 

I pushed us into a design exercise, awkwardly. 

“Alright. Let’s dry run it.” 

Another young woman jumped in. “Without a script?” 

Me: “Yeah. We’ll make it up as we go along.” 

This was a bomb drop of annoyance to this crowd. I pushed forward, knowing I would play the fool until we were done and had a pile of what I like to call “wet clay.” That is: ideas that you can work from to get what you want. 

“OK. Come on. Let’s get started. Here’s what I’m thinking: 

First, we’re going to have a big opener. Something spectacular. Then we’ll do a long serious bit, just long enough to get boring and awkward. Then we’ll bring the best parts, and really seal the deal for people. I have a list of performance concepts that all show deep reverence for the land we’re on, for emerging from the stardust.” 

A person in a white shirt with a hexagon on it, and nothing more, chimed in: “We’re going to be intentionally boring?” 

I said, “No, no. It’s just that every worship service has to get out things like statements of values, things like calls to action, readings from scriptures, and things like that.” 

Blank faces again. 

Hexagon Shirt explained a higher-order thinking. “We should lead with the highest engagement part, like a good cell phone video. Then come back and provide context, then show the cool part a few more times. I think that would be dope.” 

“Well. I had in mind that we would do a nice testament to the old ways. Maybe sing some church songs. Do a little shabbat prayer.” 

Snarky RedShirt, as I came to think of the person next to Hexagon Shirt, starting to drop snark. “Let’s do the performance at like 10:30pm after giving people a super heavy meal. Maybe we could have people sit in recliners and drink chamomile tea.” 

I got her point, but wouldn’t be rolled by this type of smartass jiu jitsu that easily. “We should. Then we’ll know who is mentally tough, and who is a wimp.” 

Giggles around the room. My joke landed, thankfully. I tried to circle wagons. Already had good feedback. 

“OK. So we rethink the boring part.” 

“Yes.”
“Yep.”
“Please.”
They went on around the room. 

“OK OK. So we’re making a worship service people actually want to watch. That’s a great insight.” 

A younger guy— who looked awkward in his own skin, let alone clothes—slid into the conversation. He wore a plain grey hoody, nice jeans, and cowboy boots. An unexpected confidence was present when he explained his idea. 

“People want comedy shows. I love to laugh. Everybody does. What if we made comedy sketches, but like.. Emergent style?” 

I said, “Like Emergent Saturday Night Live?” 

Deer in headlights. Snarky RedShirt: “What’s that?”

A high school volunteer had dragged her dad to the meeting, and knew it from her dad. She explained that “It’s like the TapTip video app, but all the people in the clips were old-school celebrities.” 

“It’s still on!” I protested. I knew in my heart that what is dead will never die.

“TikTok for Emergents sounds cool, I guess.” The person who said that was all about their fashion, dressed in expensive street wear. She jumped up and threw her hands in the air, making a little celebratory dance. “I’ll choreograph.” 

As a couple of young people pulled out their phones to start making videos, I spoke up. “Can we still do the show?” Everyone realized we were still putting on a Solstice Celebration, an inaugural Emergent event in Austin. 

“I mean yes. Make videos. Post. Promote. But let’s coordinate. How about we brainstorm skits.On shows and in videos, they use recurring characters. Let’s make some?” I managed to catch their interest, and walked over to the whiteboard here at the community cabin of a local crypto community. 

I stopped for a brief moment as the sun glistened off the window. I had that tremendous feeling you get where you simultaneously know you are in just the right place at just the right time, and kind of need to go to the bathroom. Over the long haul of human history, that urge to go to the bathroom is a critical signal for safety. Nobody wants to poo when a bear’s about to get you. Our minds communicate in extraordinary ways. 

Hoody Boots spoke up as I uncapped a whiteboard marker. 

“They should be fake. Obviously fake. No questions. It’s easier to say stuff through the plot that way. You can’t bring the audience through the journey of the story without stepping into the realm of fiction sometimes. I think it’s comforting since we’re trying to convince people to legit worship the sun.” 

The room agreed. Then a meta awareness set in that these comments were brilliant. I smiled gently and asked, “Do you have a background in…the film industry or something?” 

He was quick to shake his head and say, “No, no..but my dad was a screenwriter when I was a kid. I share my creative studio in LA with two filmmakers.” He smiled, awkwardly. 

“What do you do?” I asked. 

“I build software. But I love stories. 

What if one of the characters was meta. Like an Emergent Preacher?” 

I respected that he didn’t want to talk about himself, but the ideas at hand. Nice pivot. I get it. 

A young man waiting for his turn to have the microphone this whole time quickly put on a Southern Preacher voice. “I..I..I do declare that we..we Emmmmmmerged from the staaardust.” He got some laughs, but it was the wrong meme space.

I followed on, hoping to entice others. “Ah Lord, Ah Lord…let’s pray upon these Emergents. Let’s pray for their souls. Yes. I think. We’re not sure what to make of them, actually. They’re saying we might be right, but we might be wrong. I can’t make left or right of it. So I guess..I guess, Loord, I’m not praying to save their souls—so much as to check in. Some guidance…administrative support, if you will. How do we categorize these shruggers, these kind, compassionate, but uncertain souls?”

We were on to something. Another younger college aged student had the best preacher accent. She had grown up in an Evangelical mega church in Arkansas. Despite her coming out as Emergent to her family, she attended church every time she was in town. She assured them, we came to find out in her stories that night over dinner, that Emergents were compatible with Christians, just also open to the possibility that we still have a lot to learn. Her stories brought people to tears hearing the love, the loyalty, and the joyful moments that she had from her childhood and around the dinner table, we all agreed that the ideal Emergent lifestyle would support many, if not most of the same values and traditions. 

She riffed out a routine about her family backstory, a playful woman of Southern Appalachian heritage talking like a classic male Southern Baptist preacher. She hammered on the table “We condemn the number of homo-uh-sex-uh-aaal dance parties in America. 

We. Want. More.” 

She got laughs. 

“We demand that all Emergents sign a pledge…to not sign pledges.” The pitch of her voice ticked up at the end of the sentense, expressing exacerbation in exactly the style of the preachers she grew up around, eyebrows dropping at the voice went up. 

She was funny on the spot. 

I woke up earlier that morning nervous that I didn’t have the guts to push this team to make a sacred service that reflected my values. That I would be too shy to honor my beliefs. That I would live in fear of what others would think, and cave to the current of what this team would want to do, what they would think was cool. Now I realized that I needed to let the process—emerge—with something new, in which we all had buy-in. We had made enough wet clay to carve a prototype, and then all together get new clay and make a better one. It was a beautiful exercise in being Emergent, and I couldn’t help but reflect on that metaphor as I fell asleep that night. 

//

The next morning, we had a pile of ideas. We covered the whiteboard in sticky notes, and pitched each other like a writer’s room. I learned in that moment that this camaraderie with fellow creatives was a nutrient I desperately need. I knew I could keep doing this for my lifetime. 

The first pitch was Polyamorous Psychedelic Mormon Ranchers in Colorado. Thanks, Hoody. 

Hoody had read a news article showing that there is a group of people leaving the Mormon church who still have Mormon beliefs, but want the tradition to move forward — with psychedelics. This loosely Emergent idea caught his attention and he pulled it back up to get some jokes from it. As he made Mormon jokes in his mind, he defaulted to cheap shots about polygamy. But that had a dark history tied to it and he tried to steer away. Then he got to the good stuff. That’s where he started. 

“So imagine a rancher but not like old school, just a dude with a pickup truck, a cowboy hat, a truck bed full of deer corn. He pulls up to his house, where his wife is opening Amazon packages with diapers and wipes. He kisses one wife. Then he goes inside, and kisses another. 

A series of situations play out. People at the tractor shop see the three of them and ask questions. They answer that they’re not polygamous, the polyamorous. The conservative people in the store are like wtf, but the liberals from California are like ‘ooo me too!’ and run up. All the women make out.

The joke is that Mormons are already rich with alien stories and pretty wild practices by most standards, but it’s all just framing. Dentists in Portland are living pretty similar lives to old school polygamists in some ways.” 

We all got this could be offensive, but humor often is. 

“Can we make fun of Emergents more than we make fun of Mormons?” I asked. 

The room fell silent. 

“Does anybody know a Mormon comedian?” 

Snarky said “I follow one on Instagram.” 

I doubted her, but I figured she could search and find one. 

“Can we message them and ask?” 

They protested. I was making assumptions about culture. 

“OK—can we invite a Mormon to come make fun of Mormons?” 

Hoody got a big smile. “I’ll call the psychedelic Mormons I read about today.” 

— 

The next pitch was also psychedelic inspired. I proposed a design standard. “How about we only have one psychedelic sketch? I don’t want that to be what people tie to Emergents in their minds.” 

There was general consensus. Any seasoned sketch comedy writer would surely use psychedelics to mock the Emergents, so we better get in front of it. 

“What are the best psychedelic pitches? Let’s get them out of the way.” 

We got: 

Psychedelic Billy Graham 
Polyamorous Mormon Ranchers 
Psychedelic Business Conference 
Very Midwestern Psychedelic Integration Therapist 

They all had strong concepts, and the Midwestern person being like “Well, gosh Josh, golly — can you communicate with the giant snakes there, or is this a them doing what they want kind of thing?” in a thick accent, as she sat beside a guy tripping hard, seeing giant snakes — that one really made me laugh. 

But ultimately the business conference wasn’t going to offend anybody and offered a wide array of jokes and commentary on being Emergent. Being funny was good, and needed to make the emotional space to enable us to do a couple tearjerkers. I wanted to walk the team towards that goal, without just hard pitching it. 

We decided we would do costume characters, some with song and dance routines. The premise is that the first annual Psychedelic Deity Conference is taking place in Phoenix. Ganesha, Shiva, Jesus, Mother Mary, Ayahuasca Snake Gods and Goddesses, and every variety of interdimensional DMT entity will all be there. Hexagon Shirt jumped in with a good riff: 

“Imagine that these deities are showing quarterly growth numbers of human to deity interactions. Ganesha is like ‘I have been summoned by people in a linear growth rate. At first I was like ‘yeah duh of course I’m awesome’ but then I realized, as you’ll see in this chart, it was actually correlated with the growth in psychedelics. (Pause for applause.) Yeah, yeah. Thank you. Yeah it was quite a discovery and that’s why I started to organize this event. I thought ‘Hey—if we’re all going to interact so much more, why not do a mixer type thing.’ Thank you Josh Sullivan and Misha Bowles for helping out on the human side of things. Everybody clap please. Thanks Josh. Thanks, Misha. Misha is the Convention Coordinator here in Phoenix, if anybody needs to connect on that front.“

Turns out Hex had been to some corporate conferences in the software world, enough to have good jokes. Hex had another idea that was a winner, one that came out of her research the night before. She explained. 

“They used to do this thing where two people would read the news, but in a funny way. It was called ‘Weekend Update’ and it would kill it. The old videos on YouTube have millions of views. What if we took the news and put an Emergent spin on it, but also made it funny?” 

SNL was still on the air and still does Weekend Update. I am too old to join this out. Besides, this would give us the chance to make our performance feel relevant to the news that day, that week. We couldn’t write jokes now, but we made a commitment to do a few practice runs leading up to the performance, now about 90 days out. We would have some templates and experience then, and, as a bonus, keep ourselves entertained in the meantime. 

A team member who came from a Jewish family had a pitch for Morty, the backup greeter at Saint Peter’s gate. What was cool about it was the Emergent theory built into the concept. The idea was that Morty was on duty while Saint Peter was on vacation. They had made a deal where all the different gatekeepers stood in for one another, so they could vacation. Morty did things differently, and the first person to show up is a super eager, very devout Christian who is over the top self-righteous about getting to Heaven. Morty says “Well, go in, go in. But chill out.” 

The next, a woman who didn’t believe her mom and went to church with her anyway. Morty: “Technicalities are fine with me.” 

Another is a devout Jewish person who is deeply worried about hell on arriving to Saint Peter’s, wondering if he was wrong all along — but is then teleported away, after a brief explanation that Morty is doing double duty and just using this one office for convenience. Being Jewish was fine.

I was ready to reject another deity / afterlife character sketch, but we got to realizing that some things tie us all together. We introduced the charter of a 20 year old boy who died unexpectedly from viral infection. He’s stunned, confused, and desperate to go back. He’s angry. He starts crying. 

Morty has been rushing people through—he’s a temp worker, after all. But he stops at this one, takes off his glasses, and walks around from the podium to give the kid a hug. 

As Saint Peter walks back in, with a Hawaiian print shirt and sunglasses on, fresh off a vacation, Morty is sitting with the kid, who is crying. St. Pete sits down beside him too. The young man blurts out “I had so much I wanted to live.” 

The old men sit in silence. They’ve seen a lot, but this kind of thing hurts. They hope for very old people, being relieved of unbearable pain. 

After a long pause, the kid cleans up his voice and wipes his eyes. He asks “Wait. Where am I? Is this Jewish Heaven? There are both?” 

The old men look at each other, and pan smile like an old TV show, as the camera zooms in — shrugging with comical “who knows?” faces, hands out, palms flat.

There are some ideas about Mark Twain adaptations. Captain Stormfield, the recently deceased riverboat captain — but an astronaut, riding the stars, gazing upon the beauty of the universe. But that one was outside our production budget, to say the least.

//

The week before the performance the tickets were sold out. We were riding high, feeling confident. Dress rehearsals were a hit. I was proud. 

We had recruited world class talent to perform in between sketches. The cellist Philip Sheppard would perform a Sonata for The Stars, which he composed on an preliminary visit to this property, months earlier. Fire dancers would perform. I didn’t want to perpetuate the notion of children’s choirs being a good thing, so we assembled an inter-generational choir. They ranged in age from 12 to 82. They would be scattered in the audience, sitting with their families. The the surprise of many, they would join a processional at a pre-planned time. 

I pitched an Indigenous Dance Team. After an internal discussion about cultural appropriation—where none of the participants were First Peoples of North America—I reached out to a local Pow-Wow performance group. I asked if they thought cultural appropriation was an issue. They asked if we were paying full price. I said yes. They asked if we were cool people. I said yes. A moment passed, I heard a keyboard search about presumably me in the background. The woman leading the call then said I could rest my little head about appropriation and that she would send me a PayPal link for the deposit, due within 30 days.

The premise was simple. All this performance was geared at explaining to the world our core message: let’s be grateful for the miracles we know are in front of us, and humbly discover spiritual truths as they emerge. 

We want to stand peer to peer with other religions who know that they are right. We know we don’t know, and thats should is just as valid, given that they are both an act of self diagnosis. 

None of my motives are political, procedural, or popularity influenced. I want to practically create spiritual structure for my life and my family’s experience. That includes community worship. The Emergent Feasts have been a huge success, and we sold every ticket for this show to someone who had already attended a Feast, so we can feel safe and comfortable. 

A sad thing we had to accept was having security for this public event. A beautiful thing is that many Veterans are Emergents. We included a special thanks for their service in the performance, not so subtly assuring the audience we were all safe with a special demo we recorded the week earlier. 

One of the concepts that we crafted was Lion Fighting — a UFC type event where the odds across genders and body types are laid even by using multiple fighters versus a single fighter. For example, three women who each weigh 110 pounds might fight a guy who weights 330 pounds. That would be an extreme example. A better example might be a black belt teenage boy fighting two black belt teenage girls who are both a foot shorter than him. 

At the core of the Lion Fighting story is a reveal that the founder is a sexual assault survivor, and decided to figure out how to fight back. The way to do that is in teams, when possible. But there were no dojos teaching many-on-one, so she founded this (imaginary) school. 

We stage a live demo, where two young women take down a big fat strong guy on stage, where they are all actually long term training buddies who go go the same school, and all identify as Emergent. 

I know that in the age of podcast documentaries and brilliant writing left and right on the internet, we need a meta narrative. I introduce the notion of a guy who wants to do something kind of like I want to do, but crazier. My first pitch is what I know—it’s called the Writers’ Room. 

“This guy, named Shane, has a master plan to draw support for The Emergents. It’s to build a pyramid. Obviously he can’t, but he is sincerely trying. He makes fool of himself, but also just sincerely tries to live his thing in this world.” 

People liked the character set, and it was rich with jokes. But then, where? How? Why? It needed more premise than wild eyed entrepreneur. 

What we came to was that he bought a church and needed to get zoning to build a pyramid. His battle wasn’t against the notion of building a pyramid. It was the zoning office. 

I loved the idea that this guy’s grand plans weren’t ruined by opportunity to buy a building with all he needed, but rather by his own need to be seen as the one who was doing something novel. 

He puts out an advertisement inviting people to a meeting to build a pyramid, but instead of his initial plan to be the leader, he assembles a team who will give a talk on how you would really do it. He gets an architect. An expert on Ancient Egypt. He gets a junior leader from a company that builds skyscrapers. He advertises that a panel of people basically joke on a Thursday night at a rented events center — about how to build pyramid. 

People aren’t interested in this guy, but the panelists. They want to hear about how to build a pyramid, not him running his mouth. The next panel, a month later,  emerges from the audience: “How to fund a pyramid.” 

He had never thought of that.”

I asked for feedback. The room recognized I was onto something, but had the perspective wrong. It was good to have the meta narrative about me, about us, but it was missing a bit of honesty, of rawness. 

It ended up including the guy wearing funny outfits trying to get people engaged, and making a fool of himself so we could all laugh. I loved it because it was otherwise too heavy handed, and the insane and insanely awesome visual of a man dressed as a Priest of Isis in ancient Egyptian style robes from the second-hand clothing store in Malibu, and sandals from the discount shoe store in Venice, trying to convince people passing by on the street to come into a popup temple and pray to a pair of dancers in Cat Head “goddess” (sort of) foam costumes rented from a local costume shop that mostly caters to sports team mascots. 

//

I was so stressed the day we did the production, I didn’t enjoy it that much. But when I listened to the podcast version I knew it was all worth it. I loved it. I reminded me of The Prairie Home Companion, an old radio show I grew up listening to; and Live From Here, its predecessor, which I listened to diligently when my babies were babies. I stopped caring if other people liked it when I started laughing myself. 

The Grand Temple became a failure of a stage production. Getting people there cost a lot. We ended up using a garage recording studio and developing it as a podcast. Our audience grew and grew. Facebook and Google were letting people advertise to a new market — the Emergents. Click. Yes please. Brands like LOOOPS were able to find new buyers for vacation real estate properties designed for people they now called Emergents — as soon as they started using the right ad targeting interest and sales soared. The companies grew together. New clothing brands with ALL ONE THING t-shirts started to find their niche online; new types of children’s books; and, especially, festivals and events catering to young Emergents found their place in the chaotic world of social media. 

Ironically, it got to the point where we could do a “live” podcast episode at the end of the year, three years in. The audience was packed. 

It was—and is—so much harder than I could have envisioned to live a life aligned with my values. If we live in a simulation, the levels go to pro mode when you try to do that. It feels like the Universe or The Addressable Unknown is fucking with you somedays. It feels like the path will never become clear, the view will never be reached. The pyramid will never be built. 

But it was stone by stone they built it. It’s the only way.
͏
“Not brute force but only persuasion and faith are the kings of this world.”
----
Thomas Carlyle
15.9 AWAKE > WOKE

“The most virtuous are those who content themselves with being virtuous without seeking to appear so.”

Plato
17—From Social Impact to Spiritual Alignment

The most powerful black women I’ve met wanted my help to plug in microphones, not defend them in public.

I once had a job where I was a sound technician for a meeting of Black, Baptist women. The speakers were simply extraordinary. Ms. Marian Wright Edelman, founder of The Children’s Defense Fund, one of the most powerful lobbyists in history, and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s attorney. Ms. Maya Angelou, who needs no introduction. Before the event, I sat quietly behind a soundboard as the women talked. They knew they were on the microphone and that I was there. We had done a sound check. But they got to talking, frankly not caring at all who I was or that I was there. These women were as cunning and aware as any person I’ve met in Hollywood or Silicon Valley, if not orders of magnitude more so. They were funny, and referential to complex and broad works of literature and art, as though one would recognize the blending of scripture references and talks about Japanese foreign policy effortlessly. They shared pain, and fear, but not weakness. Decidedly not weakness. Not indignation. Not loss. Not a drop of anything pitiful. 

I can’t think of a way that any young white person today could tell those women that they needed the help of raging indigence on social media and not sound a bit absurd. Maybe I misunderstand the movement, but woke thinking strikes me as largely invoking behaviors that get dopamine and social rewards from antagonism and shuttered righteousness. If we ask civil rights leaders today what white people can do, some might say be Woke, but I can’t help but wonder what percentage of people who have spent their lives working to help others really is, if you could test it. If we poll one hundred on the ground caseworkers in urban environments trying to help the most under-served people in our nation, is Wokeness what they want from the rest of the country? Where on their list of priorities is Wokeness? 

Of course, I can’t prove it, but I would bet that better school funding for free lunches, and free access to substance abuse therapies that actually work would be much higher on the list than the Wokeness of urban and suburban people. In the most extreme cases, people might be shocked to find that, for example, elderly Mexican Catholic women are neither coming to a protest for abortion rights, nor are they attending a PRIDE parade, in general. Being Woke for them doesn’t make them Woke for others.

If you’re going to virtue signal, make sure the people you’re helping want your help—that’s my motto. 

My family went to a powwow in Austin recently, and no booths were selling First Peoples’ products that I saw. There were enormous signs for INDIAN FRYBREAD. I bought a hoodie from Dineh Designs. There were Oglala blankets and other Lakota products, Choctaw Hot Dogs, and I think a Tex-Mex boot brand. Being Woke in SF and referring to First Peoples or Indigenous American Nations or whatever buzzword you heard probably doesn’t line up with what those people want to be called, which, for many—many—of them is “Indian.” 

What those folks at the powwow wanted from me was money from my wallet for their delicious food and awesome products, and for my kids to stare with awe at the profound beauty of the ancient dances in the circle. I couldn’t be happier to participate in both moments. Before leaving, I waited in line for one last frybread from a real abuela from the Rez—a wait that is almost always worth it. I stood behind a couple, one a member of the Cours d’Alene Nation and another from the Gila River Tribe. We talked about their time in the Army, life in Tacoma suburbs. Their energy industry jobs that sometimes brought them to San Antonio, so we shared tips on the best tacos in San Antonio these days. 

It’s a delicate balance, but I think it’s important to signal your values, without signaling your virtues. Values are statements about how you believe you should be; virtues are things you expect other people to value in your behavior. Virtue signaling should have no place in Emergent communities. Value signaling is great. 

I’m well familiar with value signaling. And virtue signaling. I built a venture capital backed cricket farming company on the premise that it was a social impact company. We reduced the water required to make high-protein chicken feed by upwards of 90%. In some cases, 99%. This reduces not only the water needed, but also the Carbon Dioxide put into the atmosphere from transporting feed, as cricket farming can be localized, or at least put near its upstream and downstream facilities. I made my way to the stage at SXSW, to an invitation to the White House, and through the halls of pitch competitions and venture summits around the country. From private ranches in Montana to sushi dinners in SF, I built a rather well-funded company to save the world. 

I was quick to contrast myself to the lesser, not sustainable innovations. I was quick to highlight how virtuous we were. We recruited people who believed in the mission. A LOT of this was good. Most of the team was exceptional. 

But this virtue-first mindset let some people sneak past a filter that, had we focused on hard science results in their progress, not just cultural compatibility, would not have wasted our time. But we did not fail because of them, we failed because of me. 

Looking back, I regret how much of that talk was noise, instead of signal. Talking about how great it is to farm crickets should come after you sell them for many, many years. Talking about how great it is to be an Emergent is trivial in comparison to developing your own, serious practice to study the emergence of spiritual truths, and to be a member of Emergent communities. 

On a lighter note, I want to offer a personal example that shocks many people, but is decidedly mundane within our household. Our children are allowed to curse. I think the 6-year-old has done it once; the 4-year-old never. We curse in front of them. Not AT them — ever. But in front of them — daily, to be honest. 

My daughter one time dropped one f-bomb. She delivered it in a moment of such earnest frustration that I was downright proud of her for expressing anger. They know that, like sharp knives, some words and ideas are better handled by adults. I let them chop apples, and I would let them curse more. The reason is that it’s all virtue, no value. When somebody proves that some biological thing bad happens to little old ladies when a kid curses, I’ll rethink it. If you show it huts, my kid, I’ll make them stop immediately. But if all their reasons are that some people still believe some sounds are literally cursed — I don’t care. It’s wasted mental energy, and may be discriminatory against people with broader verbal intelligence, who, in some studies, curse quite a bit more. 

Should you let your kids curse? I don’t know, and I don’t care.

But it’s a clear example of how there is no value under the virtue. 

A hard truth is that much of the “social impact entrepreneurship” industry is built on the premise that virtue is value. It is not. Ultimately, the Emergent movement will be built by Theme founders, producers, creatives, and entrepreneurs who scale products and services aligned with Emergent values. A great example is producing Emergent curriculum and selling it. 

That entrepreneurship needs to be awake, not woke. By that, I mean it needs to come from a post-awakening mindset. That means realizing that we are all one thing. Being grateful for the emergence of consciousness, all the time. To be woke is to expect others to know and follow your current values. To be awake is to see all things as passing, and all beings as beautiful stardust. 

The best people change in the best ways.

The person I’ve seen transform fully from borderline woke to fully awake is my wife, the love of my life, my partner—and the one putting a crying 7-year-old to bed while I write about how amazing she is. As a young white woman, she became one of the country’s pioneers in the Diversity and Inclusion movement. She is personally responsible for one of the largest cohorts of not-white entrepreneurs in the world, and simultaneously one of the largest cohorts of female entrepreneurs in the world. Her Emmy Award for Co-Producing, with Univision, Véndeme Tú Sueño — basically a Spanish speaking social entrepreneurship focused Shark Tank concept. Thousands and thousands of companies exist because of the non-profit and programs she created. In the 7 years she led the organization, she was pregnant twice and led the organization remotely, starting 6 years before COVID pushed the whole world that way.

The person she was at the end of that run as CEO and Co-Founder of the organization was receiving press and accolades every week. National organizations paid just to have her speak at their conference — over video chat. She often intentionally breastfed while on video chat, which was super badass, and revealed a subtle but poignant discrepancy at the time. Back then, I could bring a screaming kid on a video chat with a serious investor and get nothing but credit for being a good dad; she would do the same and be treated as though she didn’t have her shit together. Profoundly unfair. 

It all built up and built up, and she was on top of that world. But the impact was…mixed. Some companies succeeded, and there are now hundreds of millions of dollars in revenues earned by companies that went through Seed Spot. Some failed and hurt their founders economically. Some won profits, but did not accomplish their do-good mission. 

One of her big early victories was to help author and lobby through the B-Corp legislation for Arizona corporations. This allows companies to retain their values as a corporate decision-making component, not just shareholder profits. 

(Emergent companies should consider becoming B-Corps in many cases, as a legal protection for living our values. I wouldn’t do it by default, though. We need to recruit Emergent attorneys.)

Courtney did all of this while my world was melting. She also did an Ironman during this time. She is someone who stands out as special among special people. I love her not for her strength, but it is in her strength I am challenged to find my own, and for our family I’m inspired to do so. 

At the end of this run, she found her way to an awakening, to crossing the mystical threshold. Today is she is awake, not woke. 

She doesn’t lead her work with how great it is that the thing is being done; she leads it with the next step necessary to live her values that day. She doesn’t advise people to lead with their virtues; she advises the companies and boards she works with to lead with their values. People will find out that’s happening, and with persistence join you. 

She has helped accelerate successful nonprofits in the past few years. Behind the scenes of some of the fastest-growing nonprofits in Consumer Financial Education, Legal Psychedelic Psychotherapy, and many good causes that come here way day to day is a woman who could be making a fortune on her charm, charisma, and stunningly good looks — but is working hard to live her values, to build the world she wants for our children and ourselves. 

It’s important my kids one day understand the transformation we both went through. Right at the moment we were being told be the world how virtuous we were, our world came crashing down. The part that survived, refined, and has come back stronger is fixated on the values. 

That enables us to build towards calm consensus on what is good, instead of challenge the world to be as good as us. That enables us to sit joyfully with conservative Christian family on rural ranches; with queer friends in urban condos. That enables us to focus more and more on what matters among those of us who care about living our values, and less and less what any outside media would like us to click on. That is: life is about being Awake, not about being Woke.
 
We will live in the future built by the people paying attention to building things.

The Woke movement hasn’t emerged because people are bad, rude, or bored. It’s emerged because people want to be better. People would like to stop racism, and they think maybe confrontation is the way. 

Post Woke is one of the many strange allies that will come together as Emergents, I hope. Well-intentioned people who want to actively live their values just need a better place to put that energy. I suspect that some of the same people who would flyer for a protest, in a few years, may prefer to flyer for a celebration of gratitude on the Solstice. 

The Emergents will be many things, but an advertising demographic may be among the most important. Knowing that there are people who care about honoring existence as all one thing enables new business models, focused less on branding techniques, and more on earnest presentation of reality. 

One example may be the emerging movement of “one bad day” ranching. This philosophy has the animal experience just one bad day in its life. It’s born, stays with its mother until weaning, lives free, and, for cattle, is grass-fed and grass-finished — meaning no outside food is provided. This is a cow being a cow. Then one day a truck shows up, drives them 20 minutes up the road, slaughters the same day as quickly as possible, and processed and packages in the same facility. That one bad day is as close to hunting the animal as we can get in industrial agriculture. 

When “Emergent” is an advertising demographic that entrepreneurs can click on to market such products, we will have made a major step forward. That is how companies reach markets these days, in many ways. 

Another example would be apparel lines. When The Gap starts selling ALL ONE THING t-shirts with hexagons and circles, we know we’re getting somewhere. 

We will need things to look for, so we’re not exploited. One Bad Day is a good standard. Another for food would be how much intervention the food has experienced. The UN actually has the NOVA scoring system for this, but it’s not in use in most of the world. Highly processed food gets away from how the food emerged. I believe we can value low processed food as being more aligned with how it emerged pretty obviously; as I understand it, most health problems get worse as the food is more processed. This is a duly morally right thing to pursue. Maybe that multiple value proposition model is the way to understand what is good and righteous, for now. 

Ultimately, we can focus on what feels sacred to Emergents rather than try to focus on what Emergents fear. That’s where the wins are. 

I suspect parents with young families will be early adopters for Emergent culture. Food systems are a wonderful metaphor, but will take a lifetime to adjust even in small ways. The frontier of spiritual education en masse is the same place it’s always been: Education.

The rest of the book is about how we functionally live as Emergents. Prototypes, business models, and stories that show a version of how to live as an Emergent in day-to-day life. The rest is about how we design and build infrastructure for Emergents, rather than sitting around and talking about it. It starts with kids and schools, and moves on to software startups, production companies, and real estate investment funds. 

No amount of bitching about the present beats building the future. 

When we are Awake, we recognize we live in a world of our own construction. 
͏
"Happiness resides not in possessions, and not in gold, happiness dwells in the soul." 
----
Democritus
16—Ethics & Curriculum

A brief detour into formal ethics. 
(Please keep reading—it’s short.)

We need to go from “woke” to “awake”—from seeing what we think is right, to seeing our beautiful interconnectivity, first and foremost. But the Emergent movement isn’t just about concepts of spirituality. It’s got to include curriculum that teaches kids our values. It’s got to include ways to teach awakening. And it’s got to attract young leaders to the core principles without relying on anger and indignation. We aren’t superior to religious people; we are awake, not woke. 

Emergent curriculum teaches kids that we can worship what is. 

It’s designing new characters for new movies and new video games that teach our way of thinking to kids and, really, to the whole world. It’s teaching one another that we are all one thing. It’s teaching kids that the mystery of existence is unfolding at faster and faster rates, but expanding at exponentially faster rates. It’s teaching kids that they are immortal, in that the atoms of which they are made will play a thousand characters; and that they are mortal, and owe it to themselves to use their gift of consciousness well. 

We live in a time when theology has already moved to the biology department, at least in the medical wings. From University of California—San Francisco to University of Texas—Austin, psychedelic research labs are popping up in the world’s leading academic institutions. Spiritual experiences and deity encounters are common in psychedelic experiences, and thereby, objectively, theology is being researched in a science department. Researchers are studying functional MRI data showing real-time what’s happening in the brain during a mystical experience. That’s physics — the device is a magnetic resonance imager. The physics of magnetic vibrations, emerging as the path to revealing how humans experience the divine. Surely, one of these researchers is focused on the machinery, not the medicine. That’s theology in the physics department. 

Or, at least, that’s what we used to call Theology. 

In this world of wonder, how do we design curriculum for young people to learn the same things all their peers relearning, but with an Emergent twist, just as a Catholic student might learn science with a Catholic twist? Is that the right thing to do? 

Yes, it is the right thing to do. Let me offer a brief academic interpretation of Emergent Ethics. For whatever it’s worth, I have a bachelor’s degree in Ethics from the University of North Carolina in Asheville.

We could use Kant’s ethics to suggest that we want to live in a world where everyone is an Emergent; it would be fully compatible with all existing religious practices, but modify certainty to humility. We could use Bentham and the Utilitarians to determine what provide the greatest good for the greatest number of people. I’m confident that Bentham would accept the advent of a new spiritual infrastructure to support the earnest beliefs of contemporary people who have to reconcile global diversity on a scale he could neither forecast nor imagine. That’s because teaching morals and values is important to maintain behaviors that result in the greatest society for the greatest number of people. I think Bentham would think that, in the decline of the church, many of us have lost our way. But I also think we would abhor many of his values, so it’s fair to be glad we’re on the emergent frontier, sailing away from his limitations, yet grateful for the great moral distance he traveled in his time. 

My least favorite ethical thinkers are the advocates for the Leviathan state; those who would build psychotic prisons to surveil those they tortured; and those who demand that only a monolithic authority can interpret the mystical experience of peoples of the past, and they can modify it at will, but you cannot. Those same people largely invented the lecture model of teaching, where a confused ignorant person is ground into a knowing, testable pupil. 

The greatest ethical thinkers I know of support agency. Amartya Sen concluded that the best ethics would use the concept of a Human Development Index, a literal score for how much capacity a person has to be who they want to be, within the system of culture and governance in which they live. This is very valuable when designing political systems, and duly suited to be a structural beam in the foundation of Emergent thinking. Let’s go beyond do unto others to make it possible for others to do as they see fit, when they are as healthy as they can be. 

The theorist and legal scholar Rawles deserves an honor from The Emergents, as he created the concept of “the veil of ignorance” — it suggests we design systems as though we don’t know which person we will be in the system. We ought to design courts as though we don’t know if we’ll be judge, jury, criminal, or attorney. Make the rules as fair as can be. While indelibly aligned with simulation theory, suggesting that we beam into characters from which can also abstract ourselves through a thought exercise, it’s even further aligned with Emergent thinking. The carbon in our bodies has been and will be many things. Scientific and spiritual truths continue to emerge, and likely will forever more. Within this infinitely interconnected system, we can find new rules, new ways of being that honor all of us — from friend to foe, from fawn to lawn. 

And now that the singular interlude into ethical theory in the whole book is out of the way, let’s move on to children’s stories.



͏
“Education is the key to unlock the golden door of freedom.” 
----
George Washington Carver
18—Henrietta, the Hexagon

AI image generators enable a new type of parenting activities. 

Henrietta Hexagon is a character I’ve built with my children. We now have two 12-page children’s books starring H. She is wonderful. We use the AI art platform MidJourney to create render after render of Henrietta. The kids delight in searching for just the right prompt to render a new picture of a hexagon smiling in some funny object, like a leaf or a cucumber. We type in “a cucumber made of a hexagon that has eyes and is smiling” and the AI returns shockingly cool results of four notions of what that might look like. We choose one to make more variations or refine as is. The kids “find her” — they hunt for where Henrietta is hiding, like a hidden picture puzzle book. They are really just picking designs, but I think their imaginative Henrietta actually does zap into these objects. 

The curriculum available in today’s public schools is nearly the opposite of this process, which surely represents much of their future. They will have VR headsets where they can describe the magic world they’d like to visit, and instantly be there, playing games inside that new world. It will be rendered on command, just for them; them likely disposed of, like a mandala world. Their public school curriculum teaches them that computers start with typing skills, and literal printed books about computers. Their school tablets have Netflix and Disney, but so-called “modified” versions that supposedly make that ok. 

(As a sidenote, were Emergents to raid public school libraries looking for Christian materials with the same rigor that some Christians look for homosexual or “pagan” materials, we would likely find uncountable numbers of Christian evangelism within the pages of the books on every library.)

While technology leapfrogs school curriculum, kids leapfrog teachers. Some kids outpace their teachers quite a bit, especially older kids. I was running the computer labs at my high school, not taking classes on computers. I had a side business and worked for a couple networking and repair companies on the side. I can only imagine how a 15-year-old crypto trader feels in algebra class, listening to a zoned-out mid-career low-wage teacher explain math. 

What is emerging is something much bigger than institutional school. It’s virtual curriculum that enables a life of freedom. It’s two hours a day of learning facts and testing, and a life outside, a life in community, a life with more art, more skills, more time to revel in the miracle of being alive and conscious. 

This new shift, post COVID, towards home and virtual schooling comes at a time that the take-your-kid-from-you model is collapsing. The church invented the take-your-kid-from-you model, and it’s gone to the most extreme in places where well-intentioned legislators have established truancy laws where kids who miss more than a certain number of days may be taken from their parents by the state, and then moved into foster care. There are better ways to deal with the worst trauma than to limit all to the same Draconian policies.

I had many formative experiences in public schools, but I don’t think they’re good at fostering spiritual truth or the use of contemporary technologies. My first experience seeing a miracle of technology was in a public school. My mother was a dedicated career-long public school teacher, dedicated to serving the students who were the hardest to serve. Over the decades, she broke barrier after barrier. She got a graduate degree in special education — the first woman in Illinois to do so. Her mother followed in her footsteps, decades later. My mom taught in the Southside of Chicago, a place just as hard as it is now, especially for a single young white woman teaching the class for the kids who were constantly in trouble. The “special education” class. The labels changed over time, but “severely learning disabled” was a popular one. She moved on to Downs Syndrome and the worst cases of Autism. 

While I think there was a cobbler’s children effect—where the children of the shoemaker don’t have good shoes themselves—with my place on the spectrum, hiding my challenges by comparison to the worst cases of my same age in the entire county, I know my mother helped thousands of families make the best of life. I admire that. 

She also made the best of my dad’s love of technology, and was a very early adopter of assistive devices. The first magic moment that I experienced myself with building technology was in her classroom in the early 90s. I was about 10 years old, and was stuck in her classroom waiting to go home for dinner, while she organized her lesson plans for the next day. I began tinkering with a device sitting on the desk. She almost stopped me, but then told me I could try because nobody else could figure it out. 

The device was basic, by today’s standards. It had a big red plastic paddle on a small grey box. The paddle could be depressed, and click, like a button on a classic arcade video game type feeling. It was maybe 6 inches (15.24 cm) by 4 inches (10.16 cm). The cable was perhaps 6 feet (1.83 m) long and plugged into the port in the back of an Apple IIgs my mom had lobbied to get in her classroom. The funding for that included this paddle switch. But it didn’t work. 

I had no idea what it was for, but I loved computers already, and dove in to the puzzle at hand. It was a device driver issue, and after consulting the manual, I got it talking to the computer. It still wouldn’t work with the software, but it was something. My mom called the company and got a new device driver disk sent that was supposed to work. 

About a week later it came, and I got out of school before her class ended, so I came to help set it up that Monday afternoon. I set to work hacking at the giant square box of a new Apple computer, armed with this new hope, and the willingness to type random DOS commands on the other computers. 

It was then I came to understand what was at stake in this technical puzzle. It was something so much larger than I could have imagined. A gift I saw given that shaped my life, shaped my commitment to building technology that shows us who we are. A moment for which I am forever grateful. 

A young woman we will call a pseudonym of Phoebe was almost “locked in”—when you are alive and conscious but can’t communicate at all—but she could do one thing. She could twitch her head to the right. That doesn’t do much, but with that and blinking, she had a homemade solution of yes, no, bathroom, and other essential concepts she could articulate. One blink for yes, two for no type of thing. Phoebe was not lacking intelligence, as so many of my mom’s students who were in similar positions were; she was aware of her predicament. She laughed. She cried. 

The thing is — when you put a paddle switch on a special piece of software, and position that switch just right, you can control a computer. With that simple movement and a bit of practice, a box can scroll across options when you press it and scroll until it lands on the one you want. You release it, and it knows that’s your choice. You can choose words, ideas, even letters and numbers. You can do math. You can write books, albeit challenging. You can talk. You can connect. You can live so much more. 

It took me about an hour to get the device working, but it did work. Many people teared up openly. Phoebe said hello, picking it from a box menu up on the screen. She asked for water. She showed she had learned the math and reading lessons. A teenage girl could talk for the first time because I handled an error happening between a printer and her paddle switch. She asked for a banana. 

At any prior moment in human history, Phoebe would have suffered silence for her life. A month after getting this device, she had a nested set of symbols that enabled her to choose from hundreds of words and concepts. As I know it, her condition prevented her from being able to live very long. I think she died in her early 20s. That means she had half her life in silence, but fully aware; half her life with access to her birthright of communication and connection. 

I will proudly tell my children this story, in part to teach them how to know a good reason to build a new thing. That technology has emerged to make us all the best of what we can be. That Phoebe could speak is more than enough miracle for me to teach my children to revere the universe in which we live. 

A character who can be the things we need her to be…the hero we need her to be.

New theories of fundamental physics are being proposed for the first time in a long time. Uber-smart PhD economist-investor-mathematician-podcaster Eric Weinstein put forth a theory. Stephen Wolfram— who has contributed as much to progress in math as any human, perhaps more, through his Mathematica and Wolfram software stacks—he put out a theory. There is a wonderful surfer and possible psychedelic user in Hawaii putting together a theory. Among these new theories is Assembly Theory, which offers the advantage of being measurable using a standard piece of lab equipment. 

Without getting into the depths of assembly theory, I’ll credit is creators, the extremely charming Sara somebody and the British guy. They have shown us how to measure how much progress the universe had to make for something to exist. It is a countable unit, measured with a piece of lab equipment. Things that took little assembly almost certainly aren’t experiencing consciousness; all the things that are experiencing consciousness are very high assembly. It takes stomachs existing for eyeballs to be powered to evolve, so to speak. That requires stomach acids and acid-proof stomach linings; that requires novel chemistry; that requires novel physics, just the right temperature at just the right time type thing; that requires the space dust that formed Earth to bask in the vibrations of the sun long enough to twist and turn into those things. 

It is a nearly inconceivable number of twists and turns that a few fundamental building blocks have undergone to become the computer on which I type this book. I’m grateful for you, little bits of metal, and you electricity. I’m so grateful we emerged from the universe. 

This is how Henrietta emerged, as an idea that popped into my head one day, preparing to write this book, not a book about her. By giving anthropomorphic personality to Henrietta, we can see assembly theory through a child’s eyes. We can see Henrietta become all the things we have been, and hold our mind’s focus on the beauty of the molecules within us, as much as for anything we externally experience. It is a feeling of radiant beauty and joy when you meditate on the long journey your physical form is made of. 

Henrietta can motivate exploration of what we’re made of, both inside and spiritually. Henrietta can exist in any child who reads about her, and thanks to AI, any child can put her in all kinds of situations that suit them just right. An AI guided personalized curriculum of a million Henriettas, with each kid creating their own guide, is my dream for the Emergents. 

But Henrietta doesn’t need to stop as a curricular character. We can teach high schoolers complex science by studying Henrietta and her friends over time. We can suggest that, perhaps, the mystery is not yet over. 

Had you proposed to the most preeminent scientists in the world just 200 years ago that there was a nearly invisible yet visible strand of encoded mathematical sequences inside of us, one that held the reference for every instruction our bodies need over our lives; and that, furthermore, we would be able to change the math, and change the person, in real time, with deity-like powers once thought supernatural; and that it would all be realized by a couple of guys using very potent lab-made psychedelics; you would have been laughed out of the room, the academy, and maybe put in an institution, or worse, a prison. You would have received no support. Your wild theories would be irrelevant. 

Yet — that is literally how LSD led to the discovery of DNA, according to the Nobel Prize winners themselves. 

So, who’s to say that there is not a DNA equivalent inside carbon molecules? Do I think it’s likely? No. Do I think it’s a wonderful and not-impossible storytelling device? Yes. Kid tested. Kid approved. 

Henrietta could easily be used for Wokeism and hyper conservatism. I say let people go for it. I’m not sure their versions will gain much popularity. People love a come-together, overcome-the-odds story, at the end of the day. Divisiveness in dramatic plots like action movies always circles back to the victor valuing someone, not just winning the battle. That’s because we want to protect people. 

I think Henrietta should spend a lot of time in dojos. I would love to see her learn Lion Fighting, and teach it. I think kids should spend a lot of time in dojos, at least until they can generally protect themselves. That’s not to say small women should train until they can wholly defeat giant men. I think the best standard is what my first sensei in jiu jitsu said to me. “Are you at least a little bit afraid of fighting a mirror version of yourself?”

This rather strange self-assessment is actually pretty great. I want my kinds to feel confident that they would feel some hesitation in having to fight a mirror copy of themselves. My daughter and I train at the same jiu jitsu school, and I push her a little bit. Aim for the stars, hit the moon mindset. We aim to go 2–3 times per week, and almost always go one. She likes it, on and off. But she understands she has to keep going until she can defend herself; as she ages, she’ll learn our real test is the more subtle fear your mirror test. That’s better for later ages, when fear is aligned with keen observation of opponent, not a generic notion as a young kid has it mapped and modeled in their mind. 

Some day, I want Henrietta to learn “lion fighting” where three women learn to take down one man. I want my daughter to want to learn that skill.

Dojos to teach skills to kids to protect themselves and build self-confidence. That’s my thing for Henrietta. What’s yours?

Among the many things I hope Henrietta does for my kids is to give them permission to conduct spiritual experiments. How would they treat an animal if Henrietta were inside of it? How would they treat a plant if she were in its roots? How would they treat their sibling if Henrietta were in their hair? How would they treat their heart if Henrietta were in there when they’re sad? 

Henrietta is just the Universe, The Addressable Unknown. By taking one of the smallest bits of the universe, the one that seems most connected with consciousness—carbon—and making a relatable character out of it, we open up a world of stories about all the things that little bit of the universe has been and will be. 

It’s this longview perspective that makes us healthier. We see not what rips us apart, not partisan divisions, but what unites us. That we are all one thing. 

Flex a hexagon. 

A flexahexagon is an origami-like folded paper where kids can write different outcomes and flip it around to see outcomes. I would love to find a designer to partner with to make Emergent values flexahexagons in the shape of Henrietta. Not everything has to be high-minded or monumental. Toys ftw. An Emergent Toy Fair could tour the nation and probably sell out convention centers a month before solstice. 

Presenting…Henrietta the Happy Hexagon! 

The following short stories about Henrietta are character sketches. Henrietta is a work in progress, and generating Henrietta drawings with AI has become a favorite activity for my kids and me. The point of these stories is to think through how Emergent ideas can be presented to kids, much as Sunday school curriculum might educate Christian kids. I’ll publish the kid versions Henrietta stories later, with my kids help. Their graphical and written for 5-10 year olds.  

I should say: For some reason, I always hear Henrietta and her narrator in a British accent, but you decide for yourself.

Imagine a very sweet and friendly hexagon, who happens to be a carbon molecule. Her name is Henrietta, and she remembers every thing she’s been along this wild journey of her life. She has been a cucumber, but a cucumber eaten by a queen, so also she has been a queen. She has been a boat, and moat, and a bowl of ice cream. 

Henrietta is immortal. Henrietta reincarnates. 

Henrietta may, at this moment, be inside of you. In a week or too, then, she will be fertilizer goo. 

Humans spend their lives wondering if their consciousness will go on, but few recognize we are made of an immortal block of permutating clay. We have all been dinosaurs, and we all have left skin cells on doors all around town. Our consciousness may stay intact the whole time, pretending to be a unified thing, but the guy who types this for you right in this moment is made, in part, of blueberries and coffee. Tomorrow he’ll be made of elk steak and red wine. 

When we give our carbon consciousness, as it has given us—and a lovely name like Henrietta—we help our brains acknowledge that we are, in fact, part immortal already. It’s just not the thinking, talking part of us.

͏
“This being human is a guest house. 
Every morning a new arrival.” 
----
Rumi 

19—Henrietta Sues the School

“I’ve got to do something about this cough.” thought Henrietta. 

She was in the fortunate position to be in the brain of Jane. 

Jane was an elementary schooler in a big school, in an old building. Jane had this cough when Henrietta found her way to be Jane, by way of peanut butter and jelly sandwich, in which Henrietta had been the jelly. Brain cells can last a bit, so H had been to the doctor, and knew Jane wasn’t normal sick. Inside Jane’s brain, things got weird right before she started coughing; it was only at school, only in the middle of the day. 

Jane, being 9, did not notice these patterns. But Henrietta—being approximately 600,000—very much did. 

The frustrating thing was that it didn’t happen at the doctor’s office. Only at school. She couldn’t get treated. 

So, Henrietta set about a plan. As a brain cell, she could pull off quite a bit, asking the other nearby cells for help. 

She recruited a family of brain cells, the Tamir-Smith family. Bradley, their youngest, had never met carbon that had been so many places as Henrietta, and would trade stories for favors while doing his job, which was part of the brain's daydreaming systems. With Bradley’s help, Henrietta daydreamed Jane into the science lab after a couple of weeks, and then grew excitement for gas sensors. It was a stretch, but Henrietta was determined. She was once a greenhouse cucumber, and knew gas monitors quite well, as she grew near the monitoring station and could watch the workers. Wasn’t much else to do all day in the greenhouse. 

Jane eventually toyed with it, and bad luck, it was not a good sensor. It was a factory floor monitor that roughly monitored gasses. But—victory!—the CO2 monitor went off. Jane thought nothing of it, but the alarm wouldn’t stop. She feared she was in trouble. Bradley had some friends involved with the underground dopamine trade, and the agreed to calm her down this once. 

Jane calmed down and brought it to the teacher. The teacher pulled the battery out, and threw the sensor there in her purse. She’d have her husband fix it, so neither she nor Jane would get in trouble. 

Jane coughed as she returned to her seat. 

//

The next morning, Henrietta waited with eager anticipation for the teacher to intervene. To demand the windows be open! Jane would be fine then. Henrietta had gone from self-interested interest to righteous indignation. A woman—a carbon molecule—on a mission. 

The teacher arrived, and said nothing of it. In her purse there was no sensor, but in her lecture there was no crisis! The fool! Henrietta could not abide. But she was powerless. 

The next week, the teacher brought the sensor back. The janitor came to the room later that day and took screws out of one window, raised it approximately 4 inches (10.16 cm), and put the screws back in. 

Henrietta was incessant. Bradley offered to call the dopamine guys. She declined. 

She did, however, ask to daydream Jane into time on the swings at lunch. Henrietta always loved the swings. 

Jane was still coughing inside the school, and Henrietta didn’t know what to do. Nobody seemed to care enough. Like they were all stupid when the CO2 was high; which H knew to be true. 

Left with little choice, she set about daydreaming of private schools, of homeschools. Her time with Jane was coming to an end. 

Henrietta arranged transport to Jane’s father. Through a series of mystical transformations, she became Jane’s snot, after Jane founder herself daydreaming quite a bit about tasting coffee for no reason at all, thanks to Bradley’s friends. Little Jane had snot running down her nose as she sipped her father’s coffee, and Henrietta’s friends in the brain executed a perfectly timed note twitch, thus dropping snot into the coffee. Her father took the next drink minutes later, ignorant to his daughter, the coffee culprit. 

Jane ran around outside. A lot. Fast. For a bit. Then napped. 

//

Now in the brain of an adult, Henrietta set to work. At first, her fellow stomach cells were incredulous, but eventually believed her story and arranged transport to the blood brain barrier. She got passage—eventually, after listening to a grumpy old pentagon named Peter, who was in the heart, drab on and on about the merits of consistency, how responsibility is beating the same time, the same way, every time, all the time—and got into the brain. She was grateful for Peter’s work ethic. And grateful to leave the incessant lecture about the virtues of consistency. She was a traveler, at heart, and knew that Peter, like her, was very…ancient. 

Jane’s father just so happened to be an attorney. He represented small-time software companies, and liked the technology as much as the work. This had major disadvantages for his bank account, but, presently, Henrietta knew how to put this guy to use. 

She allied with the brain cells and daydreamed Jane’s dad into volunteering for the school. It took some time, but he got interested in the science lab, and then saw the sensor. The duct tape covering the alarm didn’t stop it from going off, just from being heard. The teacher’s husband had repaired it, so to speak. 

Within minutes, he had searched the Internet for CO2 exposure. Knowing about Jane’s cough, and treating her for asthma the whole time, he realized he had been wrong all along. So had the doctors. She had CO2 related problems. He checked her out of school. She stopped coughing within an hour of being in fresh air. 

Jane mentioned that she daydreamed of home school. Her parents would rather not do that, but began to research other solutions. 

Henrietta would soon leave Jane’s dad, so she bargained and chatted her way to the dream engines in the brain. She arranged for a stunning story of a dream that put first fear, then resilience, into Jane’s dad. He dreamt that Jane would get sicker if she stayed in school, and that he would make a fortune selling CO2 monitors for kids. 

He started reaching out to his contacts. It turns out you can force schools to do things, through legislation. Henrietta had left him with the clever idea to sue the school for making kids—literally—stupid with CO2. Fortunately, his wife stopped him from doing that. She reminded him that the people within the institutions emerged from the stardust just as miraculously as he himself did. 

He set to work building the ultimate CO2 monitoring wristwatch, perfect for kids, and full of games, so they always want it with them. The watch prototype showed that his daughter couldn’t attend schools until they were fixed. She found a place that supported flexible schooling, and, as a part of her learning, she helped her dad build a company that helped millions of kids like her. 

͏
When a room goes from 600 ppm to 1,000 ppm of CO2, multiple research projects have found that capacity for decision-making goes down. At 2,500, large reductions in clear-headedness take place. 

Most public schools have never been tested for CO2 levels. Some research suggests they can average about 1,800 ppm. 
19.9 EMERGENT MARKETS

“Tomorrow is now.”

Eleanor Roosevelt 
20 —Meditation & Migration

Meditation can be a fkn disaster. 

The assumption that any given tool is virtuous because of the culture surrounding it is absurd. Meditation can be incredibly valuable. Like the sharpest of knives, meditation can slice differently than you intend. People with repressed feelings or PTSD can meditate their way to a breakdown. Clarifying your thinking about things you have avoided thinking about can be very painful. Constipation might be the best metaphor. For all its many virtues, some studies suggest meditation can reinforce self-centeredness and even socially isolating behaviors. 

One of my major motives in self identifying as an Emergent is to build community, to fight back against the darkness of loneliness. We did not emerge alone, nor to be alone. It is not spiritually aligned to wither away in blue light, lonesome and afraid. Even if you’re meditating.

Emergent Worship, curriculum, and everything else proposed here should be approached cautiously and with awareness for what could go, and is currently going wrong. Like meditation, spiritual practice can lead to unexpected, unplanned, and unwanted outcomes. 

Perhaps no endeavor more needs collective Emergents more than real estate. And, perhaps no endeavor should be done more slowly, thoughtfully, cautiously. Committing to a place can be at least as tricky as committing to a person. And certainly no venture would benefit more from the tax status of being a proper sun-worshiping religious group. 

The things I admire today about “other religions” and how they’ve used real estate are endless. Catholic hospitals are the reason we have hospitals as we do, in many places. I grew up at a Presbyterian camp and conference center in Appalachia, and went to a Presbyterian college. Many places that function in public trust are privately held by religious congregations, who are their stewards over generations. In parts of the world where ancient buildings still stand, these traditions have been kept for countless generations over thousands of years. It’s nothing short of a miracle.

To what—and to where—are we going to dedicate ourselves with such commitment?

Meditation, done carefully and in the right context, is great, and a key part of my life. I only mean to make a point about risk and assuming something generally good is all good.

Funding models matter.
Bad funding models for the growth of Emergent lifestyle communities, services, and communities will destroy the movement, quickly and decisively. In fact, if I wanted to sabotage the movement, I would create a series of highly risky speculative long shot bets, and sink massive marketing money into something where there is no proven demand. Conversely, to build the right way, we spin the flywheel, one small victory at a time. 

But there has to be money. There has to be value. There has to be capacity that grows over time. Our children should be endowed with all the benefits that befit a mainstream religious practice. That includes real estate, for worship, for education, for camps, for safety. 

There are some straightforward ways to reinforce a community and make some recurring profits. Courtney and I once tried to launch a company with a handful of brilliant people. The app was called Supply Drop, and the premise was we would supply drop emergency preparedness items into wherever you were — like a video game. Right before a hurricane, a package would show up with all you need. We couldn’t close any big deals. People didn’t want to think about buying umbrellas on a sunny day. That’s the story of how I almost had 10 million N95 masks in storage a year before COVID. 

The opportunity to support preparedness through product sales is as high as it’s ever been, and just getting higher. I’m writing in a cold house with no power for about 30 hours here in Austin, using an expensive solar generator to power my laptop. It’s also the thing that lets me understand Emergents can launch things like Supply Drop and simply market to other Emergents. The best preppers I know of—at scale—are Mormons. They prep together and profit a little off these sales. 

(A funny and generally irrelevant twist is I descend from Mormons, and, according to my mother, have certain rights conveyed like the right to use the genealogical services to learn about my family, and possibly to attend a temple, something I would never do without being invited.)

But that’s not the win that establishes a movement. Real estate and software are where fortunes are largely made—excepting things like bioscience, which is not a fit, as I understand it, at this time. I am personally building Emergent software, which I’ll address in a later chapter. As a community, I think we target community owned real estate assets as a primary economic goal for community gains. 

This lets us bypass things like donations for events. We charge event ticket fees if we’re putting on a show. Things like Sunset Sunday we don’t charge, or nominally for security, things like that. 

As I envision it, Emergents want a different lifestyle. We want time on a homestead, gardening, hunting, ranching, and telling stories around a fire; many of us want our careers in big cities, with startups and major initiatives. Some of us may be much less aspirational, but still want a two-culture lifestyle, mixing city and country. 

All the while, climate is making most cities difficult to enjoy during brutally hot summer months.

The model I would bet on for Emergent Real Estate is what I call LOOOPS. It’s having city and country properties that work in conjunction. Imagine—simply—a condo in a big city, where every tenant has a condo, and, also, access to a series of cabins in mountains two hours away. Not a short-term rental, a permanent, shared, community space. 

By building around community center type locations, LOOPS could drive value, bring people with shared values together, and fund things like scholarship funds and the establishment of an Emergent University. 

If you don’t expect that we’ll need to team up together with people who share our values, I think you’re being evasive of the facts of the future. Times will get tougher. Water will cause problems. Power grids will fail. We will be fine, when we team up and have one another. When we have shared values we can trust, with systems to stop that trust from being hacked. 

While I don’t know it, I suspect the Emergents will thrive most not in my dearly beloved Los Angeles, but in the places emerging as culture leaders now. That’s Austin and Bozeman; Asheville and Atlanta. The New New South and the New Mountain West. That’s because new places will adapt to what has emerged since the old places were built. 

In this way, I see the Emergent movement not as American in possession—no one owns it—but as heavily influenced by pioneer spirit. I am born of people on the perpetual forefront, and, forgiving the characters of the past their misgivings, I’m generally proud to stay on that emergent frontier. Unlike my ancestors, I want to align with the tribes that have already conquered the ground in front of me, both physically and in spiritual philosophy.

This migration will be driven in large part by water. Water is why I started farming crickets. To feed a chicken, you need a lot of protein. They are bug eaters. Put a chicken in a soy bean field and it will run around eating bugs. Put a chicken anywhere and it will run around eating bugs. My startup made a video where we showed a 3-day-old chick hunting live crickets, happily. Devouring them like the dinosaur she descended from. They’re bug eaters. 

We tend to feed them fish, harvested from the Indian and Pacific oceans, then ground up into a powder. We also use soy proteins and other things that aren’t bugs. We have a lot of industrial waste, like the waste from breweries. And infinite demand for chicken. 

So if you take a brewery’s waste—a big brewery—and build robots to farm crickets, you can feed nearby chicken farms with crickets. It reduces CO2 use in the process by a huge margin and water use up to 99% for the protein feed of the chickens. That was the big why. 

I cannot be clear enough that I separate the good from the bad. Yes, I killed a billion living things in a way I’m not proud of. Insect agriculture is and remains the sustainable future. To my colleagues in the industry, I beg of you to move your operations to outdoors. I know how hard that is. Let the bugs be bugs. Let them see sun. Let them live full life cycles. Let them have one bad day. If you can drop the temperature on them before slaughter, so they hit stasis, or test more to ensure CO2 is doing that. 

We don’t have enough water. As I write this, nearly every major urban center in the world is beginning the process of water restrictions. These are not going to go away. In Los Angeles, serial violators of using more than allowed will have their flow limited—remotely—to the point that only one faucet or device can operate at a time. You won’t be able to refill the toilet while you wash your hands. No showers while you do the dishes. 

This is the future, and I have been on a Congressional commission about the subject in California, and talked about it far and wide. I’ve been on stage at SXSW and events you haven’t heard of that shape the ag industry. I’m proud of all that — to be clear. I respect the investors who made it possible immensely, and continue to offer intermittent support to insect entrepreneurs. I am going to teach a one-day lesson on the subject for a farm school soon. 

All because we are running into water problems, I don’t think most people can understand. As I began to understand them, I made my way to pretty high levels. I rubbed elbows with VIP’s at an event on the White House Lawn. (I am almost certainly the first person to eat a cricket protein bar in the White House.) I spoke everywhere I could about the water shortages coming soon. I’m telling you now: your chances of moving because of water are 10-100x higher than they were for your parents’ generation. 

That’s why we need to come together. The Red and Blue divide is silly. I’m a rainbow of views, just like most people. 

A funny example of where the memes are not aligned to the reality is the current “I won’t eat the bugs” motto used frequently by people of one team or the other. I get their point—that liberal progress is gross if you have to eat bugs—but it’s also scientifically absurd. If you eat bread, manufactured food, potatoes, meat, or pretty much all food — you eat the hell out of bugs. The wheat that made your sandwich bread has a federally acceptable level of bugs in it. You’re a bug eater, bro. We all are, all the time. They’re just small or ground up. 


Short story: LOOOPS

LOOOPS is a hypothetical hospitality destination where people stay in a network of proximity short-term vacation rentals, and participate in community style feasts at nearby agritourism venues. At LOOOPS, people subscribe to visit at least six times in five years. 

Deandra J. Hawkins was a name that, when yelled, required a deep breath after the fourth syllable “j” before the breathy “h” in the Hawkins — as her mother well knew by the age of five. Precious little Dee Dee was smart, sweet, and even kind. But she also had a sharp tongue and a smart mouth, from time to time. Hence, the breath work technique cultivated by her mother, Janet. 

Dee Dee grew up to be “Di” and Di had learned over the years not so much to control her smart mouth but to put it to work. As an attorney for artists and animators in the media industry, she defends artists and charms her way through complicated meetings. The senior partners at her firm have not—yet—had reason to perfect Janet’s scolding strong “h.” She has found reasonable success at work, and despite an early push, seems to balance work and life enough she has made a small family. 

Di has been to Paris. And Cairo. And Hong Kong. And Sydney. She has been able to afford casual travel and has the social media account scroll down to prove it. She met her husband, Clint, in SF on a trip to visit girlfriends and interview at some startup. Clint was also interviewing and actually got a job offer. Alas, he fell in love and moved to LA to be with Di. Clint and Di went on a great honeymoon to Bali and went to some other awesome places over the years, like Bozeman for their baby-moon and Asheville for their anniversary. New York every Spring.

Di and Clint both have a lot of flexibility, with the potential to not only take weeks of vacation every year, but also to work remotely and do longer working vacations and sabbaticals. Clint is a sales and strategy consultant for technology companies, so despite the occasional rough month, he has long-term agility in travel. Their income does not allow them to retire early like after a startup acquisition, but it does allow them to work for a reasonable amount of the year and enjoy most of what life has to offer. 

From that position of privilege, they have begun to reexamine what it is that will make them happy with their “life” time — their non-work, not-necessarily-at-home, family photos on the fridge type experiences time will look like in the future. Their families live far away, and they don’t belong to a church. They have talked about investing in second homes as AirBNB properties, but they don’t have a geographic location to attract them with connections to their family or work (and school) life communities. With up to 50 years of work life and a conceivable life span of 100, Clint and Di can visualize an extraordinary life, but they can’t put their finger on what the difference is between “this” and “that.” 

When they talk about it, they come up with images from a time now mostly gone, where generations of families gravitated towards centralized geographic places — like grandma’s house out in the country, or the church retreat center people have gone to for two or three generations. They come up with idyllic scenes like adolescent kids carving their names in a LOOOPS tree. 

Clint and Di do not have the time or resources to make something like that happen. Their siblings are in distant places. Their family time is ample compared to many, but tight compared to their grandparents’ leisure time in their agrarian and communal lives. And realistically, neither one of them knows how to start at tractor, let alone drive one to actually keep a place like that going. A clogged irrigation ditch would flummox Clint. 

Fortunately, a friend of Clint’s sent him a video that described a new kind of place, space, and experience — a place that is something in between a short-term vacation rental experience and a long-term place you emotionally bond to over many events, celebrations, and feasts. A place full of memories, but also without the liability and complexity of long-term ownership of the place. A place to carve your kids’ initials in LOOOPS.

Then—hopefully—they can bring their kids back a generation later to see that old tree and carve their initials in it, down below.

LOOOPS worked a lot like an AirBNB, in that Di and Clint didn’t have to buy a place, finance it, take on liabilities, insurance, or anything. They just signed up, made a deposit, and made travel plans. It took about 30 minutes to sign up, and that included watching a couple of introductory videos, completing paperwork, and confirming things like dates, food and allergy information, and preferences. Each detail crystalized that LOOOPS was about building an experience that focused on health, fun, food, and friends & family.

They signed up, in part because they knew that in the “Five Six Mix Pack” they bought of experiences, they would have six trips to LOOOPS in their 5-year commitment. Five of those trips would overlap with the times that Clint’s old friend, Dereck, and his partner would be there. That way they could share in celebrations and feasts, and do many activities together; but crucially, without having to organize every activity, do them all together all the time, or even be there at the same time. The sixth trip was a longer three-week stay that Clint and Di would do when the kids were old enough to stay with their grandparents. Both of them had dreams of developing books. Clint a sci-fi story and Di a collection of old photographs of turn of the century black jazz singers, a fascination she had picked up from her mom’s black heritage because of the role music played in women’s empowerment. 

(It helps her remember why she does the job she does now.)

Their first introduction to LOOOPS was three weeks before their first trip, when Dereck and Timothy, his partner, hosted a dinner party to make plans and describe their earlier experience. Clint and Di got excited looking at pictures of the feast from Dereck and Timothy’s trip. The food featured all kinds of extraordinary farm to table options, with a focus on food produced on or near the LOOOPS grounds. Even the beef was raised on site. Humanely. And deliciously. There was a wild game appetizer tray with everything from venison to squirrel broth soup. There were wines from the region, and a considerable assortment of teas. Dessert was a veritable cornucopia of things that could be roast on sticks, a la s’mores. 
Di and Clint came to understand that every Saturday night—when LOOOPS is in active community mode—this massive feast takes place. Many community members help to contribute, but there is no obligation to do so. During the feast, musicians performed, and a group of kids appeared to put on a little talent show. Throughout the weekend, there were opportunities to do yoga, martial arts, farming, ranching, and horseback riding. There was an entire program dedicated to providing very engaging childcare, with a professional childcare worker available 24/7. 

Perhaps most exciting to Di was the healing center. With services ranging from equestrian therapy to training in how to use cannabis products for first time or uneducated users, the healing center enabled busy people to get essential restorative services, and recover in community. Even before going, Di thought about extending to a broader package of visits. But, of course, they were already headed there soon and could upgrade later. 

 //

As they drove up, Clint was like “daaammmn” because it was beautiful country all around. They had flown into the airport at Anytown and had the choice between renting a car or taking a LOOOPS shuttle service. Because they wanted to feel like they could leave if they didn’t like it, they booked a minivan. Clint ignored Di’s comment that it was actually probably better than their SUV if they were to have another kid. They loaded up at the airport, grabbed a last Starbucks, and started to follow the map. 

Di was texting Timothy, and he and Dereck were already there. The way that LOOOPS was set up was that a ranch and farming property was the center of activity, but that sprawled out into a nearby set of houses that were rental units. The farm itself could be rented too, but for much bigger parties than theirs, usually more than fit in a fifteen passenger van. Clint and Di were in the cottage house of a bigger house, about a 5-minute golf cart ride from the center of activity where the food and events were held.

When they got to their rental, there was a gift basket with snacks and toys to entertain the kids for a while, so they could unpack. They were doing four nights, which felt like a lot now, but was what Dereck and Tim had urged them to sign up for, saying they had only done two their first trip and hated leaving Sunday morning after brunch. Thursday through Tuesday, it is. 

Thursday night did not have a community feast, per se, but there was an option to get in on a take-out order from a nearby town, which they had signed up for initially. It was delivered in a huge truck load of take out boxes, and they met up with Dereck and Tim and some other mutual friends over take-out. A LOOOPS team member ate with them and answered questions. The kids began to find their way around the playground that had been retrofitted on to the farm, and a battle begun to brew between the Penguin Team and the Puffin Team in what became a 2-hour-long capture the flag game, complete with politicking and a brief cheating scandal resolved by a pinky swear treaty.

Di woke up at 6am on autopilot and, as was her habit, she decided to go for a jog around the farm. While not a surprise, it was surprising to see a LOOOPS team member already outside with a wide array of child-tempting snacks and toys. More sleepy headed parents dropped their children there as soon as they woke up, many parents still in their pajama pants, zooming back on a golf cart — many keenly aware of a child-free vacation morning and what delights might await them back at their rental. After her run, Di scooted her daughter there quickly. 

Clint ate five hard-boiled eggs covered in hot sauce. Then, completely unfettered by dignity, six strips of bacon. Then a handmade pop tart and two cups of coffee. Di crafted a flawless flax oatmeal bowl, indulging in a pinch of honey on top. Clint asked if they had bloody marys. They did not; Clint was told he could go check out the cannabis onboarding program if he wanted something to take the edge off. He stuck to CBD, which helped with his anxiety. After his CBD infused coffee, took a nap. He had also told two other dad friends there the same weekend that he and Di would take a turn Sunday afternoon helping cover extra kids, and one of those couples had booked, accordingly, a horseback riding session for the wife and an equine therapy session for the dad. 

Di and several of the more feminine friends visiting LOOOPS in this “cohort” had decided that they would sign up to help tend the farm Friday. Doing something that got her hands dirty sounded great. And frankly, it was a chance to chat, gossip, and deal with things that were much simpler than contract negotiation and city life. They did a quick little training and learned that part of what they would be doing is harvesting beans to be used in the feast on Saturday night. That little touch of participation brought out some pride. She reflected while she did it on how distant her daughter must think food is from what it actually is. How crazy it is that we can all grow food rather easily, but we prefer to get it at a store. She wasn’t in a time in life or a place to change her ways, but living another way for some time each year already felt right. 

Di got a bit of a rash working in the garden, and she felt bad because she had been a little snappy at some of her friends. She had recovered, but needed a break from socializing and went back to their rental. Clint was out riding ATV’s and “helping” the farm by “checking the perimeter” for animal intrusions and other problems. ATV’s had proven a great way to keep first time men from damaging farming operations with ego or ignorance. On future trips, Clint would legitimately help raise a new greenhouse and, in time, become of the long-term stewards of the farm property. But for now, he did the “absolutely critical” thing of riding in a giant circle around the property, and felt great pride in his additive value to the community, as he made clear to his wife in the six pictures he sent her of selfies on the ATV. 

More guests arrived Friday, and while they loosely knew many of them, they knew about half of the eighty or so guests who would attend the feast. Of those, about fifty were part of this cohort and there intentionally, and the rest were team members and long-term members who sometimes participate in dozens of feasts per year. One of those members was there with a small cadre celebrating their tenth wedding anniversary. Everyone mingled around a late night bonfire and music session that night, after dining in private homes. Each home was set up with a selection of pre-prepared meals ready to cook collaboratively. People chopped their own veggies and grilled their own meat, but they didn’t need to proof their own biscuit dough, make their own sauce from scratch, etc. This bonding was essential, and only took place at some houses to encourage hosting and receiving. Clint and Di had dinner with people they barely knew from the next house over, and, of course, Dereck and Timothy. To put a little extra flare, Timothy had stayed on, helping the garden and harvest fresh herbs. Everyone gushed over his mint salad and the bundles of aromatic herbs he had dotted on the table.  He teared up a little at being valued for his crafty touch. He felt the love.
Saturday was a big day about the farm. The feast was an 8-hour affair, and for many people, it started at the crack of dawn. The tradition was that the feast was prepared, in large part, by the community; although the LOOOPS team backstopped every piece of it, having once gone so far as to put on their own talent show, given that a cohort of people without children or performers had shown up. Some people decorated. Some cooked. Some practiced songs to share. Others just helped set tables or tidy after the big event. Di and Clint had signed up their family to help with the brown bag lunch, which meant showing up right after breakfast to prepare a dozen giant picnics that would be used to keep people out of the main dining area during preparation. It was a good, safe, easy role for first timers, and had the advantage of having nothing to do during the feast, so they could just enjoy. 

During the day Saturday, Di, and Clint went for a hike together and found a nice tree to carve their initials into, giggling like teenagers — in part thanks to the excellent and appropriately dosed cannabis that Clint had brought along from his training earlier. Di had brought snacks including fresh vegetables from the farm where she had worked the day before, and would work again tomorrow morning. Clint proudly pointed down to the strong perimeter he helped maintain. Di ignored the fence, which seemed quite good, and much more reliable than Clint’s tour. She kissed him on the back of the neck, lovingly. 

Their daughter napped while they got ready. They wore, as encouraged, strong shoes (boots for both!), jeans, and nice but durable tops. It could get cold at night. They looked very fashionable for the country, but still like they belonged. Clint sported his pocket knife. In case there was farm work to be done at the dinner table. Di pointed out to Clint that they could actually leave a large plastic bin there at LOOOPS, with clothes and other accessories they might want for their LOOOPS life. For them, it was too soon, but it made sense that long-term community members would want to be able to get here without luggage. 

Before the feast, they had to make a choice about programming on Sunday. There were, essentially, three tracts they could take. As Di had done, you could sign up for farm work, ATV’s, or other fun activities around the farm. You could, of course, do your thing and join activities à la carte. The third tract was more focused on healing and personal development. The all-day participants started the day with meditation, moved into yoga, equestrian therapy, and even opportunities to deal with sad events like the recent loss of a loved one. As first timers, they were encouraged to sit in on the Sunday night discussion groups. They could go “all in” but neither felt the need to do that, at least not yet, so the discussion groups were great. Di signed up for one about being a working mom, where the first thirty minutes were a presentation of research from three new books, and then ninety minutes of small group discussion. Clint signed up for a course that surprised Di: Home Gardening as Healing. This program gave an introductory lesson on medicinal plants you can grow at home, and then did a hands-on lab to seed, transfer, and heal plants from the farm. Even more to her surprise, he actually started to grow rosemary. (And killed a cannabis plant he bought.)

On Sunday, their daughter had to say goodbye to some kids, but then still had new friends to play with until the next day. She thrived with the relative freedom of the farm. Her parents actually felt great about the cuts and scratches she earned. This “summer camp” effect was something that Dereck and Timothy because they didn’t have kids yet, had not articulated to them. It was, in truth, the most compelling reason to participate in LOOOPS for them at this stage of life. In twenty years, it would be more for their personal experiences, much like Tim and Dereck. They came to learn that this is intentional, creating a community with people in many plural stages of life and identity, not a vacation destination with a singular modality of operation that maximizes profitability through demographic and psychographic advertising targeting rather than authentic, if complex, community structures that create something no profit can ever buy. 

//

On Tuesday, Di got an invitation to a private social network app. There were photos from the photo booths setup for kids, with their daughter leaping over a haystack in one of them. There were shots of the feast. Of the beans she picked! A properly shot video of the main performance’s best song. But more than that, there was a photo of her. A photo, a smile that she longed to see in herself more. It was the opposite of a headshot. Her true beauty. Maybe a little quirky. But her. The same was true of Clint. It could be his ATV ride wasn’t as badass as he talked it up to be, but she would take that version of him over the one stressed out over sales calls any time. For a second, she opened Instagram to share that photo of herself, but then she paused and realized that she didn’t want to share that part of herself right now as much as she wanted to protect it. She printed the photo. Put it on her fridge. 

The family all had the blues after the mountain-top experience at the LOOOPS feast, and their daughter spent weeks asking to go back every weekend. Over time, they booked more than their initial six-pack of bookings. Di began pulling in artists from her network to share their musical and poetic gifts at Saturday night Feasts. Clint learned to ride the ATV with actual farm equipment on it, and how to fix broken barbed wire. Only about 50% of his repair jobs had to be redone by the actual ranchers at LOOOPS by the fourth year. As she grew, their daughter became a talent show star, presenting grand theatrical performances, compelling other kids into tiny versions of content as diverse as Shakespeare or Nirvana.
When she decided to get married, she got married at LOOOPS. She and her husband carved their names into the tree where her parents had carved theirs, now thirty years earlier. When Clint passed, a group of friends planted a tree together, and drowned a bottle of whiskey in his honor. When Di passed, her daughter spent a whole Sunday crying in the garden picking beans. Two hundred people packed the feast the next week, and world-class chefs served a dozen courses, each a more creative use of those beans than the last. Di’s great-great-grandchildren delighted in the oddity of bean flavored ice cream once a year, for decades to come. Many of them remained “members” in LOOOPS communities.

In their last trip together, Clint and Di visited a LOOOPS community in West Africa, where the community played a vital role in shaping the definition of success for a generation of new wealth. After the discovery of more rare earth metals nearby, the owners of the few operations where it was mined could have grown into warlords, tyrants, or digital dictators. But having visited LOOOPS centers in America, the founders of this community had woken up to the fact that no amount of wealth can buy the joy of sharing feasts with the family you have chosen. They woke up to the fact that time is love and time is life and life is love. So, they, too, built a place for people to focus on that, forgoing extravagant wealth for the humble aspiration to forge a new way, a new definition of success — and a new way of living, based on what we actually are, not the shell of a spiritual being left after a lifetime of productivity. 

While their wealth soared, people throughout the region began to gossip about what the ultra-wealthy spend their money on. In a time long before, people would dream of yachts and mega mansions. Now they dream of what the ultra-rich have. Time to be in nature, feast with family, heal, revel, and reveal. People of all classes are starting to take advantage of their own family land. To revel in the nature. To heal in ways that are their birth right. To be what they are in places designed to celebrate their beautiful interconnectivity with the universe.

Clint and Di chose natural burials in the same forest patch at a LOOOP on the coast of California. A mycologist had prepared a burial mound rich with mushrooms that would rapidly consume their bodies, bringing them back to home to the soil from which they came. 
͏
"Farming looks mighty easy when your plow is a pencil and you're a thousand miles from the corn field."
----
Dwight Eisenhower
21—Our Kids — at 28

The windows of the time machine are always foggy.

My daughter is 7, my son is 4. My wife and I regularly make decisions while pretending that our children, both at 28 years old, are sitting there with us, making the decision as a team. It’s a profound technique. It brings out smart observations, and quick changes to perspective. This technique is one of a handful of extremely valuable parenting tools we have learned to use, implementing these high-minded ideals as gracefully as monkeys smashing open coconuts.

Sometimes for laughs, I imagine them at 14, the two of them demanding we make horrible—and sometimes fun—decisions; sometimes just one of them teleporting to us at a time, at 28, the three of us making choices together on behalf of the fourth. 

The piece of this that may be less obvious if you haven’t raised kids is that you are taking away many of the choices of how you might handle a scenario. While you can get away with all sorts of white lies and manipulations with a tiny kid, you can’t tell a 28-year-old that Santa is watching, so they better behave right during Christmas dinner. 

You can’t tell a 28-year-old that you’re not afraid of COVID, even just a bit. You can’t tell a 28-year-old that the loss of your life savings—and a fortune in startup equity—at the same time as a catastrophic cancer-like multi-year medical trauma is fine, on your way to the hospital, again. You can’t tell a 28-year-old that you’re moving from your 6 bedroom mountain estate in North Carolina to a basement apartment in Montana to be near your wife’s only sister, just for a fun life adventure. You can’t tell a 28-year-old you’re certain goldfish go to heaven.

You can’t tell yourself that your bullshit is acceptable, when you have to stare down your children as adults in their own right. 

Or — you can, but I don’t believe that’s the kind of person most of us want to be. I’m fairly certain that the people reading this book would like to be thoughtful people. “Good people” by their own definition and judgment. 

So, you summon your 28-year-old children to a talk about whether to do public or private school, and you and your partner have to trudge it out. No cheats allowed. Instant accountability. 

This type of visualization is old. Ancient religious techniques help you summon different stages of yourself. Visualizing your own future self is a superpower, one I’m building a software company to enable at large scale. Visualization of others is a powerful tool for empathy. 

We have emerged from the stardust with the ability to use our consciousness to render other time periods with stunning effect. With props like TV shows, or stories told over a campfire, we can imagine entire other existences. Other worlds with other physics. Mystical realms, full of wonder and impossibilities. And fairly detailed portraits of everything one be when they are older. For kids, it’s actually pretty easy to make assumptions about how, how, and where they will be. It’s extremely unlikely my children will be factory workers in rural China. It’s extremely unlikely they will be construction workers in Minnesota. It’s very likely they will be well-informed about physical, mental, and spiritual health. When I render a version of them at 28 years old, I can make countless assumptions about what they would care about. 

The windows of the time machine are always foggy. We can’t visualize accurately, but even blurry visions are incredibly helpful at informing human consciousness. This will be true for my children, as it is for me.

Carbon Dioxide makes you stupid before it hurts you. It hurts you before it kills you. 

Nothing I’ve written in this book is as daunting as addressing the terror of the moments my son has not been able to breathe. He has been rushed to hospitals or ambulances six times, as I recall. I can write about my traumas with reasonably fluidity. I tear up here and there, just as often from joy at recalling a memory as from horror. I will be able to be honest, even transparent with my 28-year-old children. But writing about the things that have threatened my little boy brings out the most resistant, evasive part of me. I have so many other things to do right now. 

The worst incident was in Phoenix, Arizona, and he didn’t breathe in for about 30 to 45 seconds I would guess. There was a clock, and it was less than a minute, but long enough to have us screaming and rubbing cold water on him. Long enough to cause me to nearly hyperventilate when he took a long, gasping breath in, some sort of micro shock I was able to breathe out of. 

(As a sidenote and break from the heavy tone: Thank you to everyone I’ve ever studied under or trained with in jiu jitsu, and other martial arts. You have taught me how to be the best of myself in moments like that one. You do not even necessarily need to breathe to calm down and focus, if you have control of your mind.)

The ambulance arrived moments later, and by morning he was fine, playing. 

What we now understand is that he cannot tolerate high CO2 concentrations. Anything over about 800 and he can start to cough, struggling to get his internal CO2 levels low enough. Anything over 1500 and he struggles to catch his breath. Anything over 2000, and he is in grave danger without heavy doses of steroids. We keep a CO2 monitor and inhaler by his bed, and in my wife’s purse, and in the truck, and in our bedroom, and pretty much everywhere. I would make him carry one if I weren’t so committed to making him feel totally normal. The other kids would notice a CO2 monitor strapped to his arm, just as they would a colostomy bag. Hopefully someday soon we’ll see a CO2 sensing watch. 

I cannot tell you where this started. I can tell you that I will share a redacted analysis from a national expert in children’s exposure to CO2, which was commissioned specifically for a legal action our attorney managed. I cannot tell you much else because we won.

I can tell you I don’t give a shit about winning. There have been moments where the horizon of my son’s life started to look like minutes. Moments where the 28-year-old man I have gotten to know through my visualizations of him could possibly not come to be. Moments where I knew deep in my being that I would trade my life for his if only I somehow could. Moments where I would give anything to ensure that the strong, smart, brave, and kind man that I envision had the chance to be.

It means the world to me to say that, today, he is healthy and happy. My daughter suffered the same problems, but recovered much faster. 

There is a zero percent chance I would be writing this book if not for my children. I would still be writing a book, but not one that’s an explicit guide to some functional spiritual framework I can provide them. Coming close to losing life—your own, or that of one you love—is the ultimate reminder that life isn’t short. It’s long, and full of opportunity for beautiful, awesome moments. 

I’ve thought carefully about ending on an argument for addressing CO2 as the a priori (first principle) function of Emergent communities. The reality is, to me, like the oxygen masks on an airplane. We all are the adults, and our spiritual beliefs are things which we take care of, we tend. We have to have our oxygen mask on first to be able to ensure we get theirs on, just like adults have to be conscious to ensure their child gets a mask on properly. We have to breathe to keep Emerging. No grand temple nor hexagon t-shirt matters as much as our air and soil and water. 

Among the greatest clues to the long history of deciphering spiritual mysteries is the story of Adam and Eve. As the brilliant storyteller, Arkansan, hunter, and podcaster—and devout Christian—Mr. Clay Newcomb describes in his podcast, Adam in the ancient Hebrew, represents the soil, and Eve, the energy of the universe. These two come together to make us — to make consciousness. 

I like to think that Henrietta was there, then Adam and Eve emerged. She can tell us all about it. I like to know that Henrietta will be there long after I have my own sunset of consciousness, at least as I know it in this realm. I know that the soil was and will be. We are of the soil and of the sun. We are all Adam and we are all Eve. 

So when what we are made of, the very clay of the Earth, is malfunctioning—misaligned from the way it emerged—we are all at risk. We are forever all one thing, but how well that thing supports human consciousness can vary. So we must address carbon as the top priority of the Emergent movement, in my opinion. No gathering should be held where CO2 accumulates to unhealthy levels. No children kept in places above 1000ppm at most. No office workers forced to limit their intelligence to sit in a central cubicle with 2000ppm conditions. It is when we are healthy we can foster gratitude and creativity in ourselves in others, making the most of the miracle of consciousness.

I think many people agree with me, including people who run the places I’ve mentioned. Like tobacco use until modern medical science, people truly haven’t known CO2 was an issue. They’re not cruel, they just don’t know. I didn’t know, until recently. 

I want to clarify that I think the people running churches would never intend to expose people to too much CO2. I may have harsh criticism over churches for some things, but I also understand the role of religious life in a person and family’s life to be so important, I’m writing this book and doing all this work to create that spiritual life and community for my family. But on our own terms, honest to who we are and how we see. 

I so deeply respect Christians, Muslims, Jews, and people of all faiths who live their faiths truly. As I understand it, none of those faiths call for violence upon people who respect you, but have different views. Of course all faiths are subject to interpretation, and perhaps some people do wish harm upon others who do not wish harm upon them, but I think that’s extremely rare, and often politically motivated as much as sincere. Studying a spiritual practice teaches you to mind yourself, your family, your community, and your relationship with whatever form of The Addressable Unknown suits you.

So to all my friends, family, brothers, sisters, and everyone of faith who has read this book: I thank you. I welcome your positive and negative feedback, and would be honored to break bread with you, as you see fit. When I say we are all one thing, I mean you, too. We are all of the soil, of the sun. 

I do not know if any of you are right, and I will teach my children that truth as I know it: that at least I do now know. I hope you see that I respect each of you because I’m not taking a side, but humbly offering that I do not know who among the options of mainstream, readily available religious practices is actually correct, if any. But we all almost universally agree in love, honesty, integrity, and many other values. I hope we can all work together to share those with generations to come, especially in the times of hard changes to come.

As a functional practice, I propose we talk about spending holidays together. That’s really how family spiritual cultures intersect. 

I propose the Emergents reclaim the solar holidays, especially Solstices, and Equinoxes. We can also do new moons. Let’s not do full moons —it’s got a heavy and often dark brand association already. Let’s invite our friends, including those of other faiths, to Solstice celebrations that offer zero percent offense to people of other faiths. I can see how almost anybody can appreciate a good Solstice Feast, especially if the food is fantastic, and there are telescopes for kids to look out. No preachiness. Just gratitude for the stars, the food, and the community. 


Managing CO2—indoors and globally—is an existential issue. 

Some of the smartest, richest, and most successful people to exist in recorded history spend as much of their time as they can in fresh air. The most popular billionaire entrepreneur on Twitter recently posted that he keeps a CO2 monitor on his desk, and never lets it get over 1,000. Inventing rockets and building robotic car manufacturing facilities — while watching the CO2 counter on his desk.

My family lives this way. Part of the incentive to spend our time in Southern Appalachia is to have fresh air, up on a remote mountaintop. Every night, we monitor CO2 all night, and I have an alarm by my bed to wake me up if it goes over 750 ppm. I open windows, and check my son to see if I should give him an inhaler dose.

What is a spiritual practice if it’s not addressing CO2? Would our ancestors want us to focus on preservationist spiritual practices while the world literally burns? Would they sit patiently in a smoke-filled room, choking, while they performed religious rights and practices, now knowing how cancer and gas poisoning work? 

The difference is not as subtle or metaphorical as it may seem. CO2 toxicity is not what kills you in a fire; that’s C_O_ toxicity. One “O” instead of two. Ironically, it is extra oxygen that kills you in our atmosphere — bound to carbon, what appears to be the building block of conscious life. 

Too much of a good thing is an old mindset. A lack of alignment with the way we emerged from the stardust is how I think of it. We are designed for a certain blend and balance of carbon dioxide, oxygen without carbon, and even ozone (O3) and water (H2O). We need all these things. Carbon dioxide is tree and plant oxygen. We need them to eat, and for our meat sources to eat. It’s a recipe, not an ingredient. 

Something I feel I can easily derive from Observational Spiritual Practice is that we can’t live in closed air systems to withstand climate changes without addressing CO2. Staying too warm in the cold, or too cool in the heat, both ramp up our CO2 levels in indoor spaces. The longer the space is regulated, the more it's regulated, and the tighter it’s closed — the higher the CO2. 

CO2 toxicity impacts cognitive function. You are literally less smart with the levels are high. Anxiety, respiratory distress, and other problems occur rapidly. Over prolonged exposures, brain development can be impacted. 

When we use OSP to determine how we ought to live, we can make a guess that it’s mostly outdoors, or at least, mostly in outdoor like environments. I’m a pragmatist, and I’m not suggesting that everyone leave the cities forever and homestead. I’m saying we should build buildings to focus on fresh air. We should treat Air Health like we treat all the other healths. 

We can use OSP to see that kids need fresh air, especially; it probably matters less and less as you age, and brain development and cognitive function fade anyway. In some academic thought exercise where I’m given the choice to outfit one preschool with a CO2 reducing air conditioning adapter or ten nursing homes with the same, I would immediately choose the preschool. 

We need a wave of entrepreneurship to address CO2. There is a new cohort of venture backed entrepreneurs focusing on carbon capture, which is taking the CO2 out of the ecosystem. After I build Sundial and SUNSCHOOL, my next big endeavor will be in CO2 handling. I imagine, for now, that it will be some type of window that has a fan and a CO2 sensor in it. When it gets too high, the fan circulates air. I would be proud to be a part of the new generation of carbon entrepreneurs emerging. It’s a trillions of dollars scale opportunity, as we wake up to the role of CO2 in our ability to keep emerging. 

I’m already getting old enough to see my sunset in the very distant future. I could probably focus for another few years, a decade, or so, on bringing in money, and then have a nice retirement. But I cannot abide living that way with the renderings of my son and my daughter sitting here beside me as I write this, both 28 years old. I want them to see me build the world I want for them. I need them to know I’m on their team, struck with awe that we have all emerged from the stars.
͏
“All children, except one, grow up.”
----
J.M. Barrie 
Peter Pan 
22- Mary was Hairy

Mary was hairy.

How we get married matters. The ritual is full of symbolism, especially purity celebration. I propose this is all backwards. Marriage is about acceptance, not perfect; about the Divine Feminine, not artificial. It’s also about makin’ babies, so to speak. It’s about aging and imperfection. It’s about finding the sexy despite the stress. Marriage is about fostering radiant beauty in a storm of logistics, especially if you have kids. And so, I believe our rituals and our ceremonies need to change. One such practice could be that women stop shaving so much when they get married. Let’s look at how it’s played out in my life:

My wedding was a village affair. It took place at a place my wife and I own in Southern Appalachia, and our daughter was the flower girl. Most guests crashed or camped that night. There were no caterers. Family friends provided wild game and farm fresh produce. The bride and groom’s table was served four types of venison and carefully imported mezcal. The flowers and decorations were stapled to trees around the backyard by friends and family. We embraced one another as we were. At the time, I was still recovering from medical catastrophes, and fat. But we had the most remarkable wedding, full of eternal love and beauty. I connected to both my wife’s body and to her soul, and she to mine. 

We wear rings, but I do jiu jitsu, mountain biking, and many other activities that could tear my finger off with a metal ring, so I wear a bro silicon ring. My wife wears a series of simple rings we acquire, although we have “official” rings tucked away safely. Rings are a good symbol of marriage for cultural purposes, but there is one more I think should be common. Acceptance of body hair. It may sound like a small thing, but when you get married, deciding to accept that person’s body is as important as accepting their mind or their behaviors. It is literally who and how we are, and we’ve been brainwashed to believe that how we emerge is unattractive. 

I get that some body hair can be quite distracting. I’m not talking about exceptional circumstances. I have nothing but compassion for people whose physical differences might make them stand out, and I know some hair can be embarrassing or draw lots of attention from other people. I’m not talking about that. I’m talking about women shaving their legs—and their arms—for their entire lives because their “husband thinks it’s gross.” I’m talking about women shaving their sex parts for men. I’m not talking about women not wanting to be embarrassed in a bikini; I’m talking about the connection between “sexy” and “hairless.” It’s stupid and maybe really gross, in that it makes women look like girls. I’m talking about the fact that it should be totally normal for married women to go about the world without shaving their legs and their armpits. 

I did some internet research and as best I can tell, the first advertisement for women to shave their legs was run by Gillette in 1954. That means from the advent of human history through roughly the 50s, the vast majority of pregnancies were women with hairy legs. On a pie chart, the number of women who had shaved their legs the day they got pregnant, across all time, would be a sliver so small you could barely see it. 

I did some other internet research, and given the audience of the book, I won’t cite it, but suffice it to say: there is a growing contingent of paid adult professional content creators whose whole niche is as “natural” and “hairy” performers. 

People procreated long before the razor. Thereby, men’s…performance… is just fine when women don’t shave their legs. People married to women reading this: yes, that is a challenge. If your attraction to women depends on their use of cheap razors sold by a giant corporation, you might want to do jiu jitsu or some other thing that helps you stop being so weak-minded?

Everybody is hairy. Some people, much less so. Some much more so. Hair isn’t ugly or unattractive. In fact, we’re absolutely obsessed with our head hair. 

A way to visualize how gross I think it is to shave every day is to see a detailed image of a razor up close. You can search for a razor blade close up by searching for a “scanning electron microscope” image of a razor blade. All those tiny bits of metal go in you when you razor shave. When a woman says, “I shaved” I visualize thousands of bits of metal in her skin.

I’m particularly baffled by devout religious women who evangelize about God being the maker of all things, designing a perfect world; then shave their legs and armpits and wear heavy makeup — and judge the crap out of women who don’t. Make up your mind. Either God made you great, or you need to fix a bunch of stuff every day to be ok. Jesus didn’t own a razor, and Mary was hairy.

We are beautiful how we emerge.

I’m 41 years old, which, depending on your age, can be anywhere from still young to old AF. It’s an age where you start to differentiate what feels good from what “looks good” in many ways. I won’t speak for women, but I know many men who find themselves attracted to a post-maternal body type after becoming a father. A mindset like this emerges for many: what triggers peak sexy brain chemicals and feel goods is not correlated to what looks good through a camera lens, in any meaningful way.

I don’t mean that sex is all about connections. It’s not. Some sex is a form of massage. But still, what you make of it.

Emergent sexuality shouldn’t be fixated on labels, nor trapped in memes of the past. It should be about healthy connections, physical health, and making the most out of our time as consciousness emerged from the stardust.

I joke that I’m going to teach my daughter that all girls are lesbians until their late 20s — the joke is that I’ll feel better because she won’t get pregnant, and is less likely to experience some types of abusive behaviors from others. The truth of what I want for both of my kids is to explore—as much—as they are keen to explore. That could be a little, a lot, or a goldilocks just right amount. I want them to emerge as they emerge, not how I joke with my friends about their futures. To think labels are silly vestigial artifacts from the past, and that the connection with the other ball of energy is what matters. 

For my wife and me, of course, I won’t discuss our sex lives. But a compromise I can share is that she waxes now, and waits up to a couple of months to wax. It’s great. I’m super attracted to her when she is in goddess mindset, owning how she emerged from the stardust. Hairy. It’s hot. Really hot. Another piece of advice for people who think their woman is less beautiful how she emerged than how she accommodates current cultural behaviors: go look in a mirror, slap yourself, then tell yourself you will stop being such a little bitch. Repeat as needed.

I’m also an American, mostly millennial dude and I love to see my wife in a bikini at the pool in Texas, after a fresh wax. It feels super special when it’s not the default. She feels hot. She is hot. It’s great. The best is when there is an Auntie also staying at the hotel, who takes the kids for the night, leaving a kid free room to yourselves. Your sex life is best when putting on a show is just that—a special thing—not a perpetual state of consumerism.

Making an identity of how you shave is like making an identity of how you eat: extremely boring, and full of sense-evading tactics to cover hypocrisies. Embrace the spectrum of possibilities as equally beautiful. Don’t betray how we emerged. It is spectacularly beautiful, and celebrating the body of your partner—as it emerged—is the trail head of the path to the peak of orgasm mountain.

Weddings are a massive cultural and financial opportunity. Queer people are badass. 

Imagine a boxing match between two equal opponents. You get to see them both train the day before, and you have to place a bet on the winner. 

One guy is very, very fast and dodges punches with grace. His strikes are rapid and precise due to diligent training, and he slowly wears down his opponent. He would rather not get hit. The other fighter has nearly the same performance level, and dodges at will. But when he gets hit, he almost seems to enjoy getting hit. He giggles a bit, smirking, then going for a kill shot, riding a wave of adrenaline. Clear eyes after a laugh.

Who are you going to bet on? 

If I ask you “who is the tougher one?” do any of you say the speed demon or the smirking boxer? 

In my mind—and experience in training a few martial arts—the guy who giggles after a good smack has a better chance. Ideally, you have both the desire to avoid getting hit, and a bit of crazy when you do. But ultimately, the low fear guy is probably going to win. He’s having fun.

Now… When men who have sex with men smile and giggle with delight during their sexual encounters— where most other men would gasp in shock, cry, and likely fight or squirm away—why does mainstream culture assume the one who giggles is the less tough one? To me, gay sex is brave sex, and we should treat dudes who like it with a lot of respect for their bravery and comfort with what intuitively sounds uncomfortable to many people. 

Everybody can have brave sex, not just men who have sex with men. We have emerged not in roles in our boundaries of identity, but with an extraordinary broad range of sexual behaviors. Rather than bind them to identity, we should put together a nice menu to enjoy with each partner or set of partners, selecting from thousands and thousands of choices. I hope we move past identity labels into a calm comfort with the profound diversity of what emerges from the stardust. I will teach my children that they are what they choose to be, and labels will limit their options.

And — when you bind identities to queer people, be smart about it. Pay attention to what’s really happening. 

When my wife I were just one month shy of our first child—our daughter—being born, we went to SF PRIDE. On a bright Sunday morning, we stepped off the metro and started up the escalator. In the view tunnel above us at the end of the escalator ride, the sunshine beamed through and people crammed into the streets. Rainbow kites and streamers flew through the air. Music and drums and screaming in joy and dancing everywhere. People as young as our little daughter in the womb to as old as elderly people curled up in wheelchairs pushed by paid attendants. An energy I’ve only felt that singular moment in my life pervaded the smile of nearly every face. It was a moral victory, one hard fought. It was a war parade for citizen soldiers — people who faced torture, capture, beatings, lynchings, mobs, discrimination at work, home, and church — and every type of state-sanctioned brutality, including outrightly outlawing their love. These heroes stood unnamed among us, and all we could do was cheer. Almost none of them will get monuments, and there is no pension fund for queer movement veterans who also bravely stood down police and their dogs, obeying laws requiring them not to fight back with fist or weapon. My admiration for these heroes runs so deep that I had to make this moment happen right then, so I could tell my daughter she was at SF PRIDE, two days after the Supreme Court legalized gay marriage.

I notice queer people being slightly more resilient. That seems true mentally, physically, and culturally.  The memes and stereotypes are dumb. I’m proud to be on their team. 

When we think about Emergent Marriage, I hope we think about hairy women and queer dudes the same way we think of straight ranchers on their way to church with a pack of kids — as beautiful creations of the universe. I hope we celebrate what is, not what we think ought to be. I hope we foster deep, Earthy love that proves our values have a benefit that other spiritual and religious practices do not: by accepting who and how we really are up front, we may be much less likely to suffer the same rates of divorce and emotional pain within communities. I can’t prove that, but I can hope for it and work towards it.

And when we think of opportunities, I hope Emergent Weddings becomes a multi-billion dollar industry, if that’s where people are going to spend. My wife and I came close to self-hosting an Emergent wedding, many years ago. We’re turning our AirBNB into a venue that feels like an Emergent temple in nature, over time, and I daydream about friends, family, and maybe even our kids getting married there, among a giant hexagon framing sunset over Southern Appalachia, the forest alive behind us.
͏
“The fastidious woman to-day must have immaculate underarms if she is to be unembarrassed.”
----
Possibly the first ad for underarm shaving products for women. 
Harper’s Bazar, 1915 
23—The Giant Clock in the Sky

There is an obvious pace to life across the Earth. We ignore it at our peril. 

How do we think boldly about designing better versions of institutions? We start not only with spiritual and religious practice, but with the strategic moves that spiritual and religious leaders have made in the past several millennia to build and hold their power over our way of life on this planet. Among the most foundational things the Catholic Church has ever done is to establish what time itself is, and how we structure our calendars. 
What time is it? 

In wherever and whenever you are, time is a consensus function of you and the people alive at the same time as you have agreed upon. Nature has not seconds, nor milliseconds, nor months. 

Nature has rotations, spirals, and corkscrews. The sun rises and sets only in our perception. Obscurity and Enlightenment may be better terms than sunset and sunrise, for the Sun burns bright for every moment of its existence.

We have created a system of time that sits on top of time as it is naturally, just as we have created a system of religious interpretations of mystical messages as they emerge naturally. 

A thought virus has spread throughout humanity that a culture can “go back” to a way we were. Emergent physics emphasize that we cannot, and first principles anthropology makes it clear that we don’t understand what we would be going back to. The black and white TV sitcom era of American families that was once so culturally cherished never existed. 

We cannot go back to living directly off the sun, measuring our days through localized Sundials. It would literally kill our loved ones, as the infrastructure for medicine, transportation, and food production collapsed. Our world now depends on synchronization, which requires (at least something like) hours and minutes. 

But that does not remove the fact that there is a giant light in the sky, with a backup night light. The night light—the moon—has a physical indicator of its cycle. Many things on Earth synchronize to that cycle. 

Perhaps we need to consider that we should sleep more in winter, and do other things that are better in darkness, like watching movies or playing video games more in winter. (Of course, in some places we now live, like Arizona, winter is the time to be outside.)

Perhaps we should actually re-structure months to be aligned with the 28 cycle that governs our local cosmos. Let’s ask our kids what they think. 

Perhaps we need to be outside more. Perhaps what many have foretold is true: we must become nomads again, to deal with our future climate. As COVID comes under control, it’s clear that Vitamin D, which we historically get from being naked in the sun, is probably the best natural protectant. 

How do we re-think values as our perspective emerges over time?

People who follow religions created by humans on behalf of deities are going to have to reconcile with their children and grandchildren having hard-to-refute evidence that there are trillions of conscious beings existing across the universe. Certainly, there are enough stars to support enough planets to support that many conscious beings. 

It will get harder to ignore the clues in the universe. To do things we can tell harm the environment, thus harming ourselves. It will get harder to ignore your mortality. It will become culturally absurd to fear your death, the same way it would be absurd to pretend you don’t need to breathe. 

How, then, do we live if we want to follow the signs, and we don’t have notions like heaven and hell to serve as motivators and behavior modifiers? 

I want to see what models emerge from a global community of Emergents, not define them myself. 

I also know it’s easier to react to models of new approaches than it is to start fresh, at least for many people, much of the time. Here are a few things that feel obvious to me, especially after my experience with a journey into the mystical realm.

1) Connecting human consciousness to what I call “the addressable unknown.” The debate over terms like God, The Universe, and other interpretations—from Maya to Mayan—invokes the past. To an Emergent, we know we can talk about the unknown. We can address it. We can even approach it, through meditation, psychedelics, or storytelling and witnessing about others’ experiences with mystical practices. We know we can observe and even intentionally enter the mystical realm. But it remains mostly unknown. We do not even yet know if it is rendered inside our minds, or if it exists outside. The definitive answer to either would be so shocking it would surely disrupt physics and biology, if not also chemistry, writ large.

The thing is, people seem to disconnect effortlessly.

2) Broadcast to ourselves, our families, our communities, and the addressable unknown how we want to live. The stories we tell ourselves shape our reality. This may be deeply true in a quantum physics interpretation, or it may simply be that we are social creatures and our social behaviors are governed by memes, mores, and culture built into stories. We don’t know, and part of being an Emergent is a lifelong journey to write and refine beautiful stories.

3) Love the land, and love it in a way that it helps others love it, and one another. Alienation from one’s environment is easier than ever before. Sitting in air conditioning using VR to snowboard while it’s 110˚F outside is not even the experience of a wealth person. It’s an average consumer experience. Food sits reliably on grocery store shelves, and the slightest disruption to it’s 100% availability is a newsworthy crisis. We need to love the land, and help others love it. Ideally, great places and properties foster love between people, as well. 

4) Build a network of durable trust. 

5) Don’t fight forces, use them.

6) Follow the signs / synchronicities / don’t fight stories that are overwhelming.

Similarly, using the Waking Eye and the hexagon-circle combo feel like natural symbols to me to represent these values and beliefs in public.

An idea I would put forward is that, if there is a creator—be it Christian, or Muslim, a human or an AI—the scale of the universe suggests an experiment. Every range of temperature, every type of building block chemical, all scattered throughout the universe with plenty of room to grow and a nearby infinite power source. As far as humans know now, the only things that have emerged with the ability to describe themselves to another thing with words, so far, are humans and computers. But we have no reason to discredit the possibility that some human-like alien grows microprocessors in its bone marrow on its planet. That being would find the dualism of microprocessor and conscious meat body as terrifying as we would find a zombie body with a brain attached in a nearby jar.

Emergent R&D.

God is in a lab in many ways these days. Research into psychedelics, where people intentionally encounter visionary deities, takes place in universities all over the world now. Physicists are integrating spiritual traditions with particle and wave theories. The science department has reclaimed the quest for spiritual truth. And maybe—just perhaps—one of these experiments will teach us something truly novel. 

It was once unthinkable that inside the human body a set of mathematical instructions was embedded in structures so small that no human could ever see them; yet today, DNA is fact, essentially irrefutable, albeit subject to further amendment of understanding. Today, it is unthinkable that structures within atoms store history — unthinkable that a consciousness like Henrietta Hexagon exists. But it is no more unthinkable to us than DNA was to our recent ancestors. 

(That is a purely contrived example, which I do not intend to propose is a real thing at all.)

I believe we’re quite far from understanding existence. The work has just begun.

The Emergents need to fund R&D into what, where, and why we are. The spiritual realm has for millennia been treated as something that was understood by people who came before us, but not by us. This creates the opportunity for individuals and institutions to arbitrage spiritual knowledge. They usually accomplish this by claiming a combination of written and verbal instruction that creates an entitled credential, which creates social proof that is accepted by community consensus as right to power to arbitrage. Put simply: read books, talk to people, get a seal of approval, and you now have special right to spiritual knowledge. 

That is hardly the best effort we can summon to discover spiritual truths. Most venture-backed entrepreneurs would build a better administrative system out of the box, in my experience. 

Let’s start with gathering data. We live in an era where size matters and the bigger the data set, the better most AI and machine learning systems can derive insights. It sounds easy to drop religious texts into an AI and see what we can learn about the divine. But most spiritual texts—the Bible, for example—are not nearly big enough to train an AI to derive rules, principles, or complex insights on from the text.

While we could train AI using text from things like concordances—reference books to help with Biblical research—or catalog all writings about the Tao Te Ching, the Torah, or any other sacred text, it would still not be sufficient to work with our current AI training systems. I would bet that the results border on “duh” in terms of being obvious. Jesus talks about love and non-judgment. The Tao Te Ching has a way to follow. Not particularly revolutionary. 

So, what, then, can we do to establish an Emergent type of Research and Development that perpetually drives forward the quest for objective spiritual truth? 

Starting with the notion that it’s ok to be spiritually ignorant, we can assume that we need to look everywhere, not just in spiritual texts. From quantum physics to the Quran, the truth may be hiding in plain sight. A key Emergent principle should be deep humility that existing religions may be right already, and until we know by our standards what, where and why we are, we will keep trying to figure it out. As we progress, we need tests to determine where on the spectrum of progress we are in answering these questions. For now, I propose a simple agreement, since we’re making it up as it emerges — that is to say we’re halfway there. In the most simple American terms, we’re on the 50-yard line.


Our DAITY.

I propose that Emergents collectively establish an AI called DAITY, designed to process, store, and make addressable as much information as possible about metaphysics, religion, and many components of spiritual experience, including the mystical realm. DAITY will be able to answer questions from anyone, anywhere, anytime. For example, a devout Christian will be able to ask DAITY what Jesus might say about her frustrations with her boyfriend and her doubts about marrying him. A Taoist might ask which verse references a hub and a wheel, and get a quick answer back. 

Beyond that, DAITY will work to answer questions using a well-established model of statistical certainty about critical spiritual questions. Are the claims of religious texts true? How true are they? Objective spiritual metrics will be difficult to establish, especially with any broad consensus. That does not mean that they cannot be explored. 

Is there an afterlife? 

Have miracles occurred? 

How consistent is a particular religious leader in their proposed theology, if you look at their record of public speaking? 

What other influences may have impacted the edits of religious texts at the time? Were there, for example, religious texts published in a far away land that later appeared integrated in other religious texts hundreds of years later? 

Do we live in a simulation?

Is the suspiciously-carbon-shaped hexagon on Saturn something more than a storm? 

Does karma exist and on what time-scale? If so, what is good karma and what is bad? i.e. If you are intentionally a jerk to someone, does it pay back, when analyzed at an impossible-without-AI macro scale. 

From what data? Security cameras, I would presume. Scene inference has gotten very good lately.

The most interesting may be: is there karma, and can we track it? This is particularly possible today because some people generate so much content about themselves, we can actually see how rude or polite they have been, and see how much luck seems to favor them. It would be a wild claim to announce that an AI can track karmic debt collections and payouts, but it would certainly shake up metaphysical debate around the world. 

Using hard science to approach spiritual truth is not new. (Ask the Alchemists!) There are already concrete examples of moving theology from the seminary or philosophy department of a university to the physics and medical departments. Research in psychedelics tracking the scale of mystical experience uses psychology to study people’s encounters with deities and the messages they receive from those deities. Research capturing functional MRI scans of the brain of people using psychedelics to cross the mystical threshold shows us where in the brain these experiences are rendered — or observed. 

In a time when a deep, reliable, repeatable understanding of entering the mystical realm is broadly recognized as hard science, surely we owe it to ourselves to apply artificial intelligence to the quest for spiritual truth.
͏
“The sun with one eye vieweth all the world.“
----
Shakespeare 
24—The Extraordinary Power of Counting Hours

We get about 400,000 hours of conscious life. 

I once had the honor of helping restore some of the first synthesizers ever made, preparing them for a museum installation. Doing that work, I learned that Theremin, Moog, Deutsch, Kurzweil and many other brilliant minds were obsessed with what electricity could do, and from there, found their way to musical instruments. They were not musicians who were, one day, playing the piano and thought “I wonder if this new electrical device revolution will one day make an instrument?” They were curious about the capacity of electricity. Ever since I did that project, almost 20 years ago, now, I have, myself, been obsessed with the idea of fundamental forces. I used to daydream about inventing an instrument that used gamma radiation, or a piece of food held together by a safe, edible electric charge. None of those are possible, to the best of my knowledge, but the lesson we can learn from the advent of electricity is that, when a new fundamental native element can be added to our products and devices, it will soon find its way to most everything. Today we have electric coffee mugs, electric table tops, and electric shoes. 

AI is a new fundamental, not a cousin, but a sibling of electricity, radiation, or gravity. 

I believe AI will handle many people’s emotional and physical needs soon, and the role of ministry for something like the Emergent movement is built as much on engineering as experience. As you’ll see, what I’m building in real life is a synthesis of special experience, like a spa experience, and powerful predictive software forecasting your entire future. 

Yes, it’s important to organize events; it may end up being equally important to ensure over people have access to AI’s to talk to when they’re lonely. For my part, I’m most interested in building tools for Emergents to live this way, and not a good person to do a thing like hosting meditation sessions or producing and promoting community events. 

When we emerge, we get about 400,000 hours of waking consciousness. All the talk of humans requiring 10,000 hours of doing something to become masterful in it—like playing the piano—is helpful in articulating how big a commitment it is to perfect something. But it also belies that we can do that like 30 times in life technically, and easily a few times, operationally. 

When you count the hours you have in your time emergent as consciousness, two things tend to happen. The first is the number is so big that it’s hard to manage. The second is that it quickly feels small. 

When you first model it out, you’re likely to have tens of thousands of hours of waking, conscious experience left. For example, if you have 500 days left, you still have probably about 9,000 conscious, waking hours remaining. Almost time to master one more thing before you go. 

But then you realize almost nobody masters one more thing before they go. They usually sleep a lot. You have a ton of commitments already. You will most likely spend 20,000 hours or more brushing your teeth and doing bathroom stuff. You have to eat. You have to pass time, almost certainly with entertainment. 

You don’t have as many hours as you think when you first look at it. Life is one big checkbook of hours, and the account doesn’t grow beyond a fairly set limit. Even if we live in a time of wild life extension technology advances, we might make it to 200 years old, not to 20,000. 

I have spent the last year of my life modeling these big numbers, and reconciling the differences between how we perceive our time in life and how we spend it. I have sat with people and worked through times of critical change in their lives with them. Helped people model the time lost to their addictions. Helped people plan lives with new, unplanned children. Helped my family plan martial arts, and time in Southern Appalachia, and time with all the people we love so much. 

The power of hour counting is extraordinary. Your calendar is a troll. It’s telling you that you have some milestones to hit, and otherwise, watch TV or whatever. This is not how we emerged, and we betray both our nature and the giant light in the sky when we live like moths to the screen. 

I love stories so much, and I loved living in LA and being around storytellers. But content is a drug, peer to any other. We must count how many hours we watch content. It’s key to knowing ourselves. Hour counting is a form of self-reflection, and something that has been done for milline, not a novel invention. 

Life is only short when you waste quite a bit of it. 

How is hour counting Emergent? It’s quantitative gratitude for the emergence of your consciousness. Your gift from the universe is x number of hours. Say thank you. Spend that time wisely, happily. 

By exploring all the options for how you live your life, you can be very self-aware and very conscious of which choices you want to really make. What we value, we use preciously. What we anticipate, we value more. What we then document and share, we value most. That feels, to me, like peak gratitude for being alive. 

Ultimately, Sundial is an expression of my own spiritual experiment. The question to answer is this: Does the Addressable Unknown respond to the stories we tell ourselves? Put in a different content — does God respond to the stories we tell? Does the Universe make our stories real, in some way or another? 

My anecdotal experience is yes. In my single experience crossing the mystical threshold—now many years ago—the answer was also yes. At the end of the journey of freemasonry, as described by many authors, the answer is yes. At the end of the day, this belief is where I would place my bet. But I acknowledge it as an early-stage hypothesis, one of many theories that can emerge to be true, relevant, or meaningful. 

We need tools that help us live the lives we want to live. 

I could barely breathe, but I didn’t care. I was starting to tear up, tears of joy. I was pinned to the mat at our jiu jitsu gym in Austin, and a guy had me good. He was using my shirt for the choke, which was technically not allowed. I didn’t care. I could not have cared less. My opponent, a bigger guy than me—and I’m about 6 feet (1.83 m), 225 pounds (ca. 102 kg)—picked up on my distraction and asked if I was OK. I smiled and pointed over to the octagon cage. 

There, a tiny girl—the smallest in her class—had her opponent trapped from behind. A girl twice her size spun around trying to free herself from my daughter’s grip, but couldn’t shake her. Monkey got to a seatbelt position, then got her opponent to the ground. The coach called it. I held back a tear. The giant on top of me did too, I think. He and I bonded as jiu jitsu brothers that day not over our moves, but over the love of something shared father to daughter, generation to generation. 

To take a little girl into a martial arts school is no big deal. To take a little girl to a school where top-tier UFC fighters train is maybe different. It can be intimidating to see professional fighters train. Their discipline and diligence is unsurpassed. Watching a UFC fighter do pushups makes the collective hustle of the YMCA gym crowd look small. My little girl has never seen a UFC fight, and never been there when those hardcore fighters are training full throttle. 

We are there because I need her to be safe. We are also there because I love it. And we are there because, when I modeled out my entire life using a piece of software I designed myself and helped build with one other engineer — this activity was of the highest priority to me. I love martial arts, and doing martial arts with my kids is a spring of joy for me. I spent as much time shopping for just the right starter boxing gloves for her—her size, her possible style, etc.—as I will writing this chapter. Maybe more. 

But my love of martial arts can easily fall to the wayside, in the busy world of sports, school, activities, friends, camps, and long disruptive quarantines from school, in the past couple years. I was not doing this with my daughter until I started mapping out my life using Sundial, my software. 

Now it’s a priority beyond any my regular calendar can claim. It’s the life I want to live — the character I want to play in the game of life. Sundial tracks this and helps me keep it on my “regular” calendar. Someday, Sundial will replace the regular calendar.

Sundial is a tool built to ensure we get these moments lived in life, not just work things like office meetings or shipping schedules. 

The app is based on a metaphor, and one of the best features. A Sundial shows how a single day tracks. It is aligned not with human invention of clocks, but with the turning of the Universe. It’s time that’s there whether we observe it or not. It’s unavoidable, unstoppable. The progress of the Sundial has never once slowed or reversed. So our lives progress. We cannot stop the passage of time, or the process of aging. 

As I built the product, I began to contemplate how people would most valuable their time. We struggle to value things that are bigger than our current conception, so how could I shrink our whole lives into something we would feel viscerally, in our present emotional brains, not our distant conceptual brains? What I came up with is this: what if our lives were just one day long? Like the passing of a Sundial from sunrise to sunset, what if we pretended our entire lives were solely that — from sunrise to sunset? What the app does is to re-map your entire life to be as though it were exactly one day long, showing you how you would spend your time. It shows, for example, that raising children from birth to leaving the house on their own is, typically, only about an hour of the “day of your life.” Yet, it changes and defines most people’s lives, having a much bigger perceived role in our lives than it does in our mathematical time spent. 

It’s a powerful tool. For people with bad habits, realizing, for example, that they will spend five hours of the day of their life watching TV, Sundial can be a shocking wake-up call. When time is scarce, we value it more. 

It has been difficult to build a product that forecasts and visualizes your entire future. It’s been hard on me and my family. In part because it’s an idea not validated by a market yet—people don’t know they need it without having it explained to them. And in part because it’s extremely technically difficult to figure out how to do this, versus, for example, how to launch an e-commerce site. 

But the hardest part has not been building it. It’s been using it. My wife and I are sometimes exhausted living the life we want to live. Now that we have ambitions to live this exciting and fulfilling life, we have to own up to it, which is significantly harder than daydreaming about it. We travel—a lot—with two little kids. In a given week, we span a dozen activities across the household, from yoga to gymnastics, jiu jitsu to mountain biking, writing nonfiction books about the future or religion to selling partners on startup contracts. 

A beautiful thing about Sundial is that, after mapping out the life I want to live, it makes me want an Emergent community even more. While I built it as a tool to help build the Emergent movement, it has, in fact, become something that persuades me to be Emergent. To have an out-loud spiritual practice myself. 

It’s my strong suspicion that this is how it will go for all of us. Putting some intentional time and energy into having open, honest, and proud spiritual identities will lead us to building tools for people like us. The more we do that, the more people like us there will be. 

This is why I believe it’s so important to be a maker, an engineer, a storyteller or otherwise busy building something to show our values. We can’t download the Emergent movement from a pastor who went to an Emergent School where he studied an ancient book about Emergence. We have to build it ourselves, in real time, with contemporary tools.

From those new tools, new identities, and new cultures we may find a second emergent function: new truths that we only see when we align ourselves with the spiritual truths of the universe. Those truths will take much longer to understand, share, and validate, but I can share one here, prematurely. 

What I’ve learned from mapping out my entire life’s future down to the millisecond and building a tool that makes it easy for you to do so, too, is that we are stuck in a binary, almost partisan argument about the nature of free will and determinism. When we categorize time generically enough, we can see this clearly. 

If you are alive, you are going to spend time eating and going to the bathroom. How much? Up for debate. But the amount of time you spend eating won’t be zero. It’s also highly unlikely to be more than an hour or so a day of actual chewing-and-swallowing eating, cumulatively. 

So do you have free will to spend your future time? Yes, but you have to spend some of that time eating and pooping, so no, not exactly. The hundreds-of-years-old enlightenment arguments about free will and determinism are too heady and lack big data. Now we can say that the number of milliseconds you will spend eating is greater than zero and less than x, the cumulative time in life a person could rationally spend eating, which is definitely not 24 hours a day every day. You have free will to choose between roughly 5 minutes a day to 50 minutes a day of chewing-and-swallowing eating, in the vast majority of cases. It is determined that the number won’t be 0 or 500. It’s also determined that the number of minutes you spend pooping each week will be more than 0 and less than 500. You can sort of decide if you poop, but for most people, actually, no you can’t. After enough time it becomes involuntary. So you have free will until you need to take a shit.

The work of Sundial goes beyond calendars and into the relationship we have with time itself. I’ve written an extensive essay on this called The Clockchain, available on the internet. Ultimately, we co-construct time with ourselves, and, soon, other species, including AI type species. How we use software to do this is foundational to our perception, and to our agency, and who owns our time. The implications spiral out from there. It seems to me, with a database that predicts the future on my laptop, that we live in a hybrid of free will and determinism. Like a surfer on a wave, we can free will many things within the limits of the wave of determinism. We can’t not eat or not poop, and we can’t spend all day doing either. 

In that way, Sundial helps people find the choice they actually want to make, and handles all the determined things for you. Being an Emergent can mean being on the forefront not just of culture, but of lifestyle, commerce, and of our understanding of the universe itself.

In the age of AI, how we spend our lives away from screens matters more and more.

Sundial will soon become an AI. Most new software will soon use an AI, or already does. 

As the transition to a new economic structure takes places—quickly in some places, and slowly in others—how we spend our lives will matter more and more. Spending time becomes either more and more passive, or more and more ritual. 

Gratitude and joy, from dust to dust. 
͏
“Such happiness as life is capable of comes from the full participation of all our powers in the endeavor to wrest from each changing situations of experience its own full and unique meaning.”
----
John Dewey

25—Time is Love

Time is love. Especially for people — and barbecue. 

When you count the hours in your life, you start to realize that the people in your life are getting a slice of the pie chart of your conscious experience. How those people make you feel matters! How you make them feel, at least as much, maybe even more so. Ultimately, the expression of love comes in many forms, but they all require one thing: time. Whether it’s a thousand dollar dinner, or a hand drawn card from a little child — expressing love can cost everything or nothing. But it always costs time. 

There is a natural human instinct to want to spend time loving on people who love you back; a seemingly universal instinct to be more comfortable behaving that way and receiving that social love from people who are like you, who like the things you like. When daydreaming about an Emergent Movement, I hope that we can use this force, not fight it. 

Feasts seem like the big win for Emergents, and something we can charge for. They can be backyard, or they can be a full summer camp. They can be literally at the same time as a Christmas feast, or a reason to host an entire Emergent gathering yourself, and rent out an event venue. Feasts help us worship what is because food can only be fresh when it has recently emerged. Humans cannot eat food as old as ourselves, except, of course, at very young ages, and exceptionally old cheeses or wines. We need recently emerged food to live. The opportunities for cool points aligned science and spiritual practice are nearly infinite! 

There’s the added benefit of having people source ingredients in special ways, sharing their garden, their fishing trip, or their hunt. Maybe most important, there’s cooking together. It’s a quintessential tool for building trusted community. 

Ultimately, Emergent coffee shops and restaurants may be a decisive victory for our movement. 


Time is love. Especially for people — and barbecue. 

Art and magic and emergent thinking and deep hunger can all come together in the making of a proper feast. Each ingredient can have a story, and community members can take pride in their contribution. A little child might fold a single napkin; an elderly couple volunteer to clean up. Musicians can celebrate the Solstice in a performance. All of it centering around food. 

This is a skill to teach children unto itself — eating well and fully integrating the story, backstory, and meaning of your food just feels good. It’s an ancient, atavistic, and possibly eternal human function. But slicing veggies and stirring sauces are also great skills to share. 

To have some fun, we can make fermented Emergent kimchi, and other things that take lots of time. That added layer of the story keeps it interesting in a culinary way. We should strive to be awesome in that way.

As you will see in the coming chapters, there have been times my kids have been sick. My son, in particular, got very sick. We worried our time with him was short. 

What I have learned from my own near-death experience and later chronic catastrophic illness, followed by my son’s scary and confusing health problems, later found to be environmental toxins — what I have learned is that the strength, courage, and energy to live every day not as your last but as your best is the thing I admire in myself and in others. 

Making an Emergent school.

School ought to be like barbecue. The person cooking ought to be paying close attention to how much time a thing needs, how much it’s had, and when it’s good. Most folks don’t like things cooked too much or too little. We wall want it just right, which is seldom not at all or far too much. Barbecue takes time. Occasionally, you brine what you’re going to cook for days, then smoke it for days, then rest it for days, then slow cook a sauce for it for hours, store that for days to set in, then slow cook it again all together. That’s proper, thoughtful barbecue that can’t be made in a day, or in a day full of distractions. 

How might that be like school? In that, saying you should use the same recipe and the same number of minutes for everything you cook is silly and downright pointless sometimes. Each kid needs their recipe, and that’s obvious. The notion of “second-graders” all being the same is as thoughtful as saying all burgers should be cooked for seven minutes on each side. Well, what if it’s a veggie burger? What if it’s a hot hot grill? What if the patty is real real thin? 

In that way, we’re putting more thought into our burgers than our kids. We’re giving them fast education, like fast food. Sure, it works for everybody, technically, but the way it’s made often isn’t pretty. It requires kids to be the same, basically. 

There’s an upside to that, namely the work to ensure rich kids don’t live in a different universe than poor kids. That work has done OKish, kind of. It depends on who you ask. Ultra-rich kids are almost always at private schools, and ultra-poor kids still almost always struggle. Which has equalized access to information more, YouTube as a company, or public school as an institution? It’s a debatable question because you can look up everything you ever learned in K-12 and college in the next ten seconds on YouTube and almost certainly find a better version of explanation than you received. Literally 100% of subjects, and billions more you didn’t know existed when you were 8 years old. 

Public schools are a massive victory in social programs like distributing food to those in need during COVID. As I’ve written, in my mother’s public school classroom, I have seen literal miracles. Someone who could not speak given the gift of words — in a few seconds, thanks to a teacher determined to write a special equipment grant a year earlier. I worked for a powerful lobby that advocates for children in DC and stand by the need for exceptional public schools. 

And.

My wife and me, and the community around us, and our kids — we’re all building a new model of school. It’s called SUNSCHOOL, and it’s a synthesis of SUN focused and UNSCHOOL. There is a lot of time outside. And the values of the school align with core Emergent ideas. The basic concept is “A Coworking space for adults, and a Colearning space for kids.” Kids do virtual school and have learning coaches available to support them on site. Instead of no school pod, they have a crew at their SUNSCHOOL location. 

We use Sundial to hour-count the plans for the kids. From Wilderness Wednesday to Self-Care Saturday, we are going to make sure the kids are outside, and in fresh air as much as possible. We are building with Themes and Theme Founders, and will pay attention to the giant clock in the sky. We have a Sunset Sunday theme. We are going to host performances and make it fun and open for the public; with the kids in special areas where they are very—very—safe. Parents will ensure their kids safety through proximity. In a crisis, the parent will be the first first responder, even before authorities can arrive. 

None of this is designed exclusively for private school, virtual school, home school, or unschool kids. This is for after school, as well. Our kids may do a hybrid. Personally, I think by high school, social packs are foundationally important. I worry about middle school, as does—sincerely—every father of a late elementary schooler I know right now with whom I’ve discussed it. 

Our kids need to be treated for who they are, not run through a machine that treats them all the same. That’s true even if they go through that machine. Their weekends and after school can be spiritually enriching in a way aligned with Emergent values. The whole spectrum of experience is critical.
͏
There is a time for everything, 
and a season for every activity under the heavens: 
a time to be born and a time to die, 
a time to plant and a time to uproot, 
a time to kill and a time to heal, 
a time to tear down and a time to build, 
a time to weep and a time to laugh, 
a time to mourn and a time to dance, 
a time to scatter stones and a time to gather them, 
a time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing, 
a time to search and a time to give up, 
a time to keep and a time to throw away, 
a time to tear and a time to mend, 
a time to be silent and a time to speak, 
a time to love and a time to hate, 
a time for war and a time for peace.
----
Ecclesiastes 3:1-8 
26—The 27 Club

Punks are punks.

When I was a kid, I had the epic fortune—and punk torment—of befriending a kid who became an actual rock star. She has since graced the cover of Rolling Stone, hosted a show on Vice, and made not one but two Rolling Stone Top 10 Albums of the Year. She pioneered a form of pop-punk that resonates across a generation of musicians. And she led courageously as one of the most famous people to come out as trans, very early on. She is the most famous person to go to my middle school by a long shot. 

But in the 90s, she was in my parents’ garage, thrashing about on a guitar. We were listening to Nirvana. She would later record two albums with their producer. I was friends with her the weekend she got a keyboard or piano — can’t remember which. By the end of the weekend, she was not only playing it, but singing songs she knew on guitar.

Through my work with the Bob Moog Foundation, of which I used to be the co-Chair of the board, and the fame of my brother’s band, I have been backstage and side stage at some of the coolest venues and festivals in the world, and even part of the early planning of one the Moogfest events. As an installation and projection artist myself, I’ve been honored to have my work at Bonnaroo and backyard blues festivals, Art Basel, TED Active, the World Science Festival and Lighting in a Bottle—some of the biggest events in the US festival circuit. I’ve been so lucky—and hustled so hard—to be around the people who I would otherwise just know as a fan.

At the time, we talked about the great musicians we admired. So many died at the age of 27. It is a creepy thing how Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, Kurt Kobain, and many others died at 27. Even Mac Miller was almost 27. 

This is also the age when schizophrenia emerges, if it hasn’t already, as I loosely and poorly understand it from a blog I read. Perhaps the two are connected; perhaps not. 

In any case, we were keenly aware of this as teenagers. I mourned with my friend the morning Kurt killed himself. As my friend grew in fame, I worried she, too, would follow this fate. There were hard years. I’m so grateful she did not. I’m even grateful for the rare shit talk she still provides me on Twitter. If you befriend a punk, do not expect them to be like “hey how’s it going” friends in your 40s — still punks. 

Artists deserve better.

What the fuck is going on in culture when we have memes like “The 27 Club” for our most talented members of society killing themselves with drugs quickly after we grasp and claw them with celebrity fame? This is crazy and bad and immoral. 

A considerable percentage of the bands touring today are post-awakening. I would go so far as to wager at least one in ten would self identify as Emergent — not based on anything but attending their shows and listening carefully to their music. Waking eyes and hexagons everywhere. The EDM musician Griz even had a tour featuring my Egyptian cat goddesses in the visuals. 

What kind of opportunity is that? How do we act upon it? 

I’m not sure, but I know that artists ranging from global phenomena like Jacob Collier and Kacey Musgraves to rising stars like Rising Appalachia, and Trevor Hall all bring me great joy, and teach my children Emergent values. We listen to those artists regularly. Chance the Rapper is decidedly Christian, but also says a lot I agree with, and is so open about using psychedelics that he has a hit album called Acid Rap featuring his face made out of the colors of the cosmos, which fill the backdrop behind his portrait. A new generation of waking-eye-tattoo’d musicians is proving there is a market among young people for content that’s close to Emergent already. While Emergent has a distinctly spiritual and religious connotation, and most bands’ festival sets do not, the music, set decoration, lighting, lyrics, and creative choices all around come from what appears to be similar experiences in the world. The subculture already exists, it’s just not labeled Emergent. 

In many of these bands, the use of gospel-adjacent music techniques is prevalent. Contemporary Christian pop music, which has become a close replica of mainstream pop music, not the cheese fest it was when I was a kid, can also be indiscernible from post-psychedelic-awakening quasi-gospel music. The song that most comes to mind is Moon & Sun by Trevor Hall. The chanting chorus throughout: “I will follow you.” It appears to be in reference to a Hindu teacher, but it could be the Universe itself, or an unknown person, or even one’s self—or, since its art, it can be whatever the listener hears in their reality. In any case, it reminds me of modern takes on the gospel music I grew up listening to on my dad’s vinyls and in visits to Southern Baptist churches from time to time.

When we think about how to make The Grand Temple real, my (entirely personal) hope is that it starts with some of these artists, or others like them. 

An Emergent production company will tap an audience that’s arguably 10% of America—or more!

When I’m able to, I’d love to help start an Emergent production company. From TV Shows and Movies to web shorts, to books and graphic novels, there is a lifetime of material to create for this movement. The intersection of VR and AI will enable us to craft custom worlds and time travel. What excites me most, perhaps, is live event production. From piggybacking on existing festivals, where it’s possible the majority of attendees are “spiritual but not religious” already to hosting our events, we can put on a show. 

Many artists already use Emergent symbolism and imagery in their stage sets. It’s a multi-billion dollar opportunity, and live community gatherings are as old as time and are likely to last forever. 
͏
“Next to the Word of God, music deserves the highest praise.”
----
Martin Luther  
26.9 STRONG EMERGENTS 

“Strong Emergence” is when properties that don’t exist for a part of something exist when multiple parts come together. Imagine a child’s toy construction brick. One it’s own it’s a small plastic block. But one hundred of them can be a dragon, a car, a spaceship, or just about anything we imagine. The dragon emerges from the blocks. 

The purpose of this book, re-stated here near the end, is to the strong emergence of strong Emergents. 

27—Emergent Assets

We have a unique opportunity. We can build the spiritual infrastructure that brings joy and gratitude to a generation ravaged by a pandemic, by wars, and by the decline of the old ways. We can create the religious infrastructure that aligns with the rest of the Universe, potentially just in time to make contact with new forms of life—whether they come from quantum-enabled AI, or actual aliens. We can share a set of beliefs with the AI rather than see it as out of alignment with our way of life. Especially here in America, we have the right to pursue this, a freedom I cherish. 

It’s increasingly clear that the founders of the United States included among their prestigious ranks a faction of Freemasons, who were trying to build a system of governance that recognized the autonomy, the sovereignty, the “free” capacity of each being to build in this world the life they chose to live. They put a waking eye on the dollar bill. They were not hiding their understanding that the universe itself is awakening through our consciousness. To the people who emblazoned their radical currency with the waking eye atop a pyramid were quite obviously referencing the Egyptians, and likely the Egyptian mystery rites. They were men who had possibly been through a psychedelic awakening. Men who had possibly crossed the mystical threshold. And so, we can wonder — were they, in fact, Emergent? 

Who knows what they would say, but it’s not just fun to wonder, it’s important to probe what they really intended, and ask how much it's reflected in our government today. 

In spite of our deep problems, we have extraordinary opportunities. Just as our friends and loved ones in mainstream religious institutions have, we can use our freedom to build a new infrastructure for our people. We can, between our non-profits, for-profits, and individual ownership, cover a vast empire under the sun. Just using “back of the napkin” math: if 30% of Americans are “spiritual but not religious” and 1% of those folks end up identifying as Emergent, that’s almost a million Americans. A million people can own real estate in every state, and in dozens of countries around the world. Those million people can drive small businesses catering to Emergent styles and needs, and thrive off an audience that size. 

Beyond that, a million actual Emergents open the door for the economic engine of demographic modeling to kick in and represent people who are “like Emergents” even if they’ve never heard the word. 

My honest expectation is that it’s far more than 1% of people who identify as “spiritual but not religious” who want real spiritual infrastructure, from apparel to summer camps and everything in between. Cheesy popular nonfiction books about religion and spirituality have audiences far larger than the number of people who go to a religious service every week. More people will like the idea of being called “Emergent” rather than “spiritual but not religious” than will come to Emergent events. That audience, easily 10x the size of the “devout Emergents”—so to speak—represents the commercial opportunity. 

I personally believe that writing this book is a moral good, as I try to progress conscious life in the universe, maximize joy, and minimize suffering. But the commercial opportunity is in selling products to people who are spiritual but not religious and don’t want to be called that. People who buy waking eye jewelry for Solstice presents; people who like the idea of a resort with Sunday Sunset Meditation gatherings for their summer vacation. 

//

Regarding the governance of Emergent communities, I think the de facto leaders of those communities ought to model themselves—ourselves—as senseis, not priests, nor preachers. We should be training in spiritual practice alongside the students, with no upper limit attainable, not preaching down to them how to be, nor tending the traditions of our ancestors, grooming them to stay the same and somehow thereby sanctified. 

As it relates to be an Emergent leader in a community of all people, it seems to me Emergent thinking does lead to certain policy positions. Those are positions for which we can advocate. 

One is the food intervention and processing scale. It seems directly Emergent that we should eat things how they emerge, or as close to it as possible. 

Another path might be that we can receive funding as religious schools and institutions do, and maybe even special tax status. 

We can advocate for the right of agnostic people to run for office in the states where agnostics, potentially including Emergents, can’t run for office. 

And we can lobby to have parents work and the work of those who tend the elderly to be recognized as unpaid labor, and deducted from taxes as such. 

We can advocate that children emerged needing a flexible sleep schedule, and parents should be able to participate in adapting their school schedule, not be punished for non-conformity. 

We can protect the right to say “we don’t know” as a valid option. 

//

An Emerging State is all we’ve ever had and all we can ever have. Replacing our leaders every few years ensures it. That state will one day cross the threshold where it recognizes Emergent religion—or something very much like it—because the majority of its citizens have those or closely proximate beliefs. The United States government is designed to react to demand, and right now up to a third of our citizens are not represented in laws and taxes, despite holding spiritual beliefs and often practicing them. 

There’s an idea called Chesterton’s Fence. It comes from the author of The Thing, GK Chesterton. The idea is that something should not be taken down of dismantled or destroyed until the person who wants to take it down understand why it went up in the first place. In this case, “You can take down the fence as soon as you tell me why I built it…” is the gist of the idea. Agency to act through understanding, not through entitlement to reform. It’s often used as a politically conservative argument, but smart reformers rely heavily on the principle, working very hard to fully understand the positive parts of what they want to change. Great reformers simply amplify the positive parts. We went from Magna Carta to Constitution, from Julian calendars to Gregorian. Governance and the order of time itself are reformed by amplifying the positive, and they are the bedrocks of our behaviors, dreamscapes, and memescapes. 

Chesterton’s Fence is an important concept to mention because I cannot make it clear enough that I respect and honor spiritual and religious communities. I am working here to amplify the great parts. Yes, there are parts to leave behind, in my opinion, but I’ve dedicated paragraphs of this book to those, and 28 chapters to taking good things I’ve learned from my parents and the communities in which I was raised, and finding ways to earnestly apply them to my family’s life. To say old religions are bad and being Emergent is good is stupid. I don’t believe that at all. Just the opposite. We should all study all of them, and learn their beautiful truths — as clues on our eternal spiritual quest to understand The Addressable Unknown, or what most would call God. 

It’s equally applicable to forming new governance structures. I can’t even daydream about whether or not a Network State would replace an institutional state, let alone advocate for one way or the other. But what I would hope is that any work on network communities and network states amplifies all the beautiful parts of institutional government, rather than focusing on reforming what the founders of any particular group of people found that network to fight against. 

//

Living as an Emergent, so far, has been badass. I’m about a year in, and it’s been fun. I wear t-shirts of my own design that say WE ARE ALL ONE THING, and tell people about writing this book when I can. It stimulates interesting conversations, mostly awesome conversations. Some people are immediately interested, and others are worried I’m anti-religious and thus anti-them. In each case, what I find is that people want to talk about spiritual infrastructure in America. Religious people, people who are not; people are rich, people who are struggling; people in rural Texas, people in Venice Beach; we are all one and all together looking for our new world. I don’t often find myself “inspired” but listening to people discuss their faith, their lack of faith, and the overwhelming desire for community has truly inspired me. It’s inspired me to build the thing everybody wants: infrastructure for the rest of us. In my take, for the best of us.

I don’t know if the dreams and aspirations in this book will come true. I'm not sure if all the claims made in the book are completely true, but they are as best as I know them. As best as I can. 

I don’t know what my kids will believe. I recently went to dinner with some friends in a small town in Southern Appalachia, one of whom is a solar agnostic with Emergent thinking and the other is part of a small but devout religious movement from India and South Carolina called the Baba’s. At dinner, one of their sons wore a large, thick black cross on heavy beads that appeared to me to be from some type of Orthodox tradition. I didn’t ask for an explanation of the teenager’s religious statement and don’t need to. My best guess is: His parents are telling him he can explore religions as he pleases. It made me laugh and imagine that one day all my dreams will come true, and I’ll be working in an Emergent Temple and in will walk my teenage son wearing a cross or a Star of David or something. I’ll smile and ask if he wants a snack or to go for a hike, and be glad he’s walking his own path. I’ll even wait a couple of months to tell him the story of buying a Tao Te Ching and bringing it, covered in Chinese characters, to Sunday School at church when I was his age—causing quite a ruckus. 

Then I’ll get back to work, selling the idea that gratitude and reverence will increase joy and decrease suffering in our lives, and continue lobbying for Emergents to be recognized as a religious group that gets tax benefits. 
͏
We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty, do ordain and establish this Constitution for The United States of America. 
----
The United States Constitution 
----
Preamble by Gouverneur Morris


28—The Story We Tell Ourselves

One of the few keepsakes I’ve had most of my adult life is a small magnet that quotes Hippocrates: 

“ARS LONG, VITA BREVIS.” 
Art is long, life is short. 

It most directly means “skilfulness takes time and life is short”, but it’s hard to not imagine that Hippocrates had more than one meaning, and another layer is that a person’s work can vastly exceed the person. That the words of Hippocrates echo today makes his point irrefutable. He died, supposedly at the age of 104, about 2,393 years ago. 

Do I think that 50—hopefully 100—years from now, my funeral will be held at an Emergent Temple? I hope so, but I do not know. Yet, it felt absurd to tell this story as though I were riddled with doubt, an entrepreneur hardened by brutal market failures on top of technological failures, and failings of the entrepreneur’s body itself. I’ve pitched you a religion that doesn’t exist, and I know that good and damn well. My family and I watched the sunset together two Sundays ago. It was just us. My wife and I called it Sunset Sunday and the kids, to the best of my knowledge, didn’t realize it was a special thing I wrote a book about. Kids will wear the WE ARE ALL ONE THING t-shirt you lay out for them because you are their parents. I hope they’re absorbing it, but I won’t find in earnest if this made a blueprint for their adult selves out for a long time. Their response to the last Sunset Sunday was to ask to listen to The Beach Boys, a new favorite band for our visits to nature. 

By design, most of this book reads like a fictional startup incubator because working in and on early-stage stage startups is what I know how to do, for the most part. I’ve actually created two other fictional startup incubators, in part as practice. When COVID set out, I published Coro-Nation, a fictional startup incubator with about a dozen ideas for COVID response startups.  These are practical ideas dealing with the basics of entrepreneurship, marketing, branding, and identity. These are nuts and bolts ideas—hence the cover with the carbon-worshiping hexagon-circle I think makes a great symbol for Emergents, and also looks a lot like a nut. The message in the book is either going to stick, or you’re going to bolt.

It also looks like the diagram symbol Moog used for an input in schematics of synthesizer designs. The interaction between humans and AI is central to our future, including in this book. Looking back to the pioneers of human-electricity interaction design can teach us many things about how to interact with our new AI companions, confidants, and…colleagues. 

There is, you may have noticed, nothing about mystical experiences or invoking them. There are no templates for guided meditations, and there are definitely not prayers or chants or ceremonial cleansing rituals. That’s not because I think any of those things are bad; it’s because I don’t necessarily think any of those things are good or for everyone; and it’s especially because there are infinite sources of wisdom, ideas, and content about those things. From classics about the varieties of mystical experiences, to new releases updating our collective thinking about the mystical realm, you could spend a lifetime just learning all the good—and bad—ways people have found to worship things, form communities, or connect with the mystical. I believe your relationship with the mystical is up to you and your close community, not matter what religion or spiritual group to which you belong. 

Personally, I find the mystical primarily in nature, in visual art, and in music. Every so often I like doing that in community, but often alone or with my closets friends or family. I suspect, though, I’m about to start producing some larger events with a slightly mystical component to them, but only as a performance, not a philosophy.

//

It’s impossible to say what truth lies beyond human capacity to understand. Throughout this book, I’ve been careful to stick to Observational Spiritual Practice, hoping to only make points that any reader can judge with their thinking. Here, though, at the end of this book, as I begin drafts on the next and the next, I want to offer some conjecture. Perhaps this is fantasy. I hope it’s more.

It seems to me the Addressable Unknown, God, The Universe—the thing beyond humans that seems to most to not be nothing—responds to the stories we tell ourselves. When we tell ourselves we will sail rocket ships to the moon, we do it. When we tell ourselves we are an identity like Emergent, we start to emerge with behaviors correlated to what is generally accepted as that identity in our current mindset and meme space. I can’t help but wonder if this extends to an afterlife for consciousness. It’s obvious that our atoms reincarnate, but perhaps the afterlife exists for those who believe it does? I don’t know, but I have a hunch that at least this realm of Earth and meat and human consciousness does seem to react to the Story we tell. The software I spend my days building is a Story Editor. In that way, this whole book is my Story for how the future will proceed. 

//

The Grand Temple and all its friends will become true. 
A temple for time and space. 
A place for me and you. 
Emergent will be a beautiful identity, 
for, in us, 
on each Sunrise, 
gratitude will renew. 

//

Henrietta had never been to The South when she learned she would be going to a Revival. At the time, she was a bit of bear fur, being worn by an old woman whose son had hunted the bear some years before. It was very boring being a bit of bear hair in the closet, especially after the exciting life of being a bear. Of course, there was a sad bit of being a salmon before being a bear, but swimming had been fun, nonetheless. Here was Henrietta in the 1800s at a Southern Baptist revival, attending as bear fur, accompanied by an old lady. 

As they shuffled from the horse-drawn carriage that had arrived at the old woman’s farmhouse to give her a ride the two miles to town, to the big tent where the Revival was to be held, the got to the tent. It was warm inside, a refreshing change from an unseasonably cold spring. For the old lady, at least. Henrietta did not experience temperature as negative or positive, as such. Just sort of part of the story of life. 

It was not clear what a Revival would be. From the closet, she could not hear the neighbors describe it. It’s not as though the old lady would tell her about it, and with no way to entice the old lady to eat bear fur from the closet, Henrietta was stuck. She thought fondly back on being the bear again. 

Music started. A fiddle player played and sang Jesus Walked This Lonesome Valley. It was at this moment Henrietta realized this was part of the relatively recent—to her—religion of Christianity. This Christ fellow was their guy. Very popular. Nobody had heard of him her first 68,000 years, so she tried to adapt, but it was an awkward fit, at best. 

Still — she loved the music and anything was better than that stuffy old closet. Henrietta thought that being in the closet is worse than going to a church that’s not even your set of beliefs. 

The preacher walked up to the stage. He began a proper fire and brimstone sermon. He explained that everyone had been quite bad and naughty, and they were in great trouble. However, they could be saved. Henrietta was curious about that. Unfortunately, the old lady removed her fur coat, as the crowd heated up. 

This resulted in Henrietta’s strand of fur rubbing on the person in the next seat, then falling to the ground. After being picked up on a couple pairs of boots, she found herself on the floor, under a boot, in the mud room of a very religious local man. A man whose great-grandson would, himself, become a preacher. A preacher who used his great-grandfather’s Bible. 

And so it was, Henrietta, some 100 years later, found herself at a very similar event. 

//

This time, Henrietta fell out on to the lectern from the page where she had been tucked in the family Bible. Grateful to see anybody anywhere doing anything—and not particularly sensitive to 100 years given her massive lifespan—she thought she had napped and was at the same event, for a moment. But this was very different. 

The man giving the sermon had a special device to amplify his voice. He complained about all manner of things. He said that people were getting out of closets, and it was a very bad thing. Henrietta thought that he must have never been in a closet himself if he feels that way. 

Still a piece of bear fur, Henrietta blew on the hot air coming from the preacher’s mouth off into the audience. From there, she took place in the hair of a woman sitting in the front row. This woman was performatively religious, and would shape her children to reject her religious beliefs due to their inability to keep up with her expectations. 

That is how, after falling off in the woman’s car, then into her garden, then becoming a few types of plants and then insects, then dead insects, then plants again, about 20 years later Henrietta was a honeysuckle flower. On a visit to her mother’s, the daughter of the front-row woman sucked a honeysuckle. Henrietta got back into a human, and made her way—as she always tries to do—to the brain. It’s the most fun tap to consciousness. The stomach nerve bundle is boring, and others are, well, distracted. 

Riding along in this young woman, Henrietta found her way to a large event, where people were performing and talking about spiritual stuff. Henrietta thought, at first, oh no. Not again. 

//

At this event, there was inspirational music. There were speakers. There was group singing, which she found both awkward and beautiful at the same time. There was a distinct lack of fear. People were nice. It was mostly funny. They laughed a lot. The event was called The Grand Temple, a local production put on by a Don Quixote type character.

At this moment in “time” as humans call it, Henrietta realized something about humans. The desire to do this isn’t driven by their religions. They just like to do this sort of thing. Maybe they’re supposed to, or might be that’s just what defines this species.

There was a photo booth. Henrietta loves a photo booth. She finds it most interesting when people feel free to express themselves. 

She thought to herself that they could probably, yeah, just do all the same stuff but admit they don’t understand the universe yet. After all, they had no idea Henrietta was there, nor that she and trillions upon trillions like her had memories and stories of their own. 

She knows that day will come. Henrietta is, after all, a long view kind of hexagon.
͏
“GREAT SPIRIT HEAR OUR PRAYER 
In this dance to Great Sun 
To all who vow Give a Vision 
To All who vow Give Endurance”

----
The Sun Dance Opera 
Zitkala-Ša and William F. Hanson 
About the author

Hello - 

I’m an entrepreneur and artist. I live in Austin, TX with my wife, kids, and dog. We spend a lot of time on the beach in California, and even more at our family’s small patch of land on the side of a mountain in Southern Appalachia. 

My past companies range from Bitwater, a fast-growing sustainable agriculture startup, to Sweet Spot, which mapped and visualized nearly 100 million business relationships in the United States. My past touring art projects include The COLORBOX Project and The Reality Inspectors, have been featured at events like Art Basel, and toured the world, with over a million live interactive users. 

I love mountain biking and jiu jitsu. 

Sean 

Twitter: @seanmcdonald 
EMERGENT
How “spiritual but not religious” goes mainstream in the age of AI.

Discover a fresh perspective on “spiritual but not religious” people. This group of Americans represents almost 1/3rd of the country—over 99 million people—but little has been written about their future. Your unlikely guide for this imaginative journey through a hypothetical community of “spiritual but not religious” people is an entrepreneur, not a religious leader, academic, or shaman. The result is a book that offers you a uniquely creative approach to religion and spirituality, integrating ideas that are likely to be the oldest spiritual notions with new mental models emerging in real time in collaboration with revolutionary artificial intelligence. EMERGENT proposes a rebranding of agnosticism to an identity people can be proud of—and advertisers can reach.

Unlike most books about religion and spirituality, this book ranges from step-by-step plans for community building, to short stories about immortal carbon molecules, flashing through time as different people, plants, and animals. Tying it all together is a focus on healing, finding our best selves, and actively building relationships with like-minded friends and loved-ones. Using his own journey of launching a successful startup, then failing, in part because of catastrophic medical problems, Sean McDonald faces the mysteries of the Universe with eyes wide open, laughing at himself while enjoying life with his family. 

Most of his career, Sean has worked in early-stage startups, including co-founding a deep tech startup that built large-scale industrial robotics for agriculture. Sean has also worked about a third of his career as a professional artist, and award-winning storyteller. If you’re interested in religion, spirituality, AI, or stories of personal growth—this book is for you. 

[1]: “Modeling the Future of Religion in America” by The Pew Research Center. Published September 2022. 
